
  
  THE MYSTERIES OF LONDON.   
  BY   
  GEORGE W. M. REYNOLDS,   
  AUTHOR OF "PICKWICK ABROAD,"" THE MODERN LITERATURE OF FRANCE," "ROBERT MACAIRE," ETC.  
  WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS   
  BY G. STIFF.   
  VOL. I.   
  LONDON:GEORGE VICKERS, 3, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.   
  MDCCCXLVI.  
  
  
  
  THE MYSTERIES OF LONDON.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  
  PROLOGUE.  
  BETWEEN the 10th and 13th centuries Civilisation withdrew from Egypt and Syria, rested for a
      little space at Constantinople, and then passed away to the western climes of Europe.  
  From that period these climes have been the grand laboratory in which Civilisation has
      wrought out refinement in every art and every science, and whence it has diffused its benefits
      over the earth. It has taught commerce to plough the waves of every sea with the adventurous
      keel; it has enabled handfuls of disciplined warriors to subdue the mighty armaments of
      oriental princes; and its daring sons have planted its banners amidst the eternal ice of the
      poles. It has cut down the primitive forests of America; carried trade into the interior of
      Africa; annihilated time and distance by the aid of steam; and now contemplates how to force a
      passage through Suez and Panama.  
  The bounties of Civilisation are at present almost everywhere recognised.  
  Nevertheless, for centuries has Civilisation established, and for centuries will it
      maintain, its headquarters in the great cities of Western Europe: and with Civilisation does
      Vice go hand-in-hand.  
   placed in strong relief by the most deplorable squalor; the most seducing luxury
      is only separated by a narrow wall from the most appalling misery.  
  The crumbs which fall from the tables of the rich would appear delicious viands to starving
      millions; and yet those millions obtain them not!  
  In that city there are in all districts five prominent buildings: the church, in which the
      pious pray; the gin-palace, to which the wretched poor resort to drown their sorrows; the
      pawnbroker's, where miserable creatures pledge their raiment, and their children's raiment,
      even unto the last rag, to obtain the means of purchasing food, and—alas! too
      often—intoxicating drink; the prison, where the victims of a vitiated condition of society
      expiate the crimes to which they have been driven by starvation and despair; and the
      workhouse, to which the destitute, the aged, and the friendless hasten to lay down their
      aching heads—and die!  
  And, congregated together in one district of this city, in an assemblage of palaces, whence
      emanate by night the delicious sounds of music; within whose walls the foot treads upon rich
      carpets; whose sideboards are covered with plate; whose cellars contain the choicest nectar of
      the temperate and torrid zones; and whose inmates recline beneath velvet canopies, feast at
      each meal upon the collated produce of four worlds, and scarcely have to breathe a wish before
      they find it gratified.  
  Alas! how appalling are these contrasts!  
  And, as if to hide its infamy from the face of heaven, this city wears upon its brow an
      everlasting cloud, which even the fresh fan of the morning fails to disperse for a single hour
      each day!  
  And in one delicious spot of that mighty city—whose thousand towers point upwards, from
      horizon to horizon, as an index of its boundless magnitude—stands the dwelling of one before
      whom all knees bow, and towards whose royal footstool none dares approach save with downcast
      eyes and subdued voice. The entire world showers its bounties upon the head of that favoured
      mortal; a nation of millions does homage to the throne whereon that being is exalted. The
      dominion of this personage so supremely blest extends over an empire on which the sun never
      sets—an empire greater than Jenghiz Khan achieved or Mohammed conquered.  
  This is the parent of a mighty nation; and yet around that parent's seat the children crave
      for bread!  
  Women press their little ones to their dried-up breasts in the agonies of despair; young
      delicate creatures waste their energies in toil from the dawn of day till long past the hour
      of midnight, perpetuating their unavailing labour from the hour of the brilliant sun to that
      when the dim candle sheds its light around the attic's naked walls; and even the very pavement
      groans beneath the weight of grief which the poor are doomed to drag over the rough places of
      this city of sad contrasts.  
  For in this city the daughter of the peer is nursed in enjoyments, and passes through an
      uninterrupted avenue of felicity from the cradle to the tomb; while the daughter of poverty
      opens her eyes at her birth upon destitution in all its most appalling shapes, and at length
      sells her virtue for a loaf of bread.  
  There are but two words known in the moral alphabet of this great city; for all virtues are
      summed up in the one, and all vices in the other: and those words are  
  WEALTH. | POVERTY.  
  Crime is abundant in this city: the lazar-house, the prison, the brothel, and the dark
      alley, are rife with all kinds of enormity; in the same way as the palace, the mansion, the
      clubhouse, the parliament, and the parsonage, are each and all characterised by their
      different degrees and shades of vice. But wherefore specify crime and vice by their real
      names, since in this city of which we speak they are absorbed in the multi-significant
       words—  Wealth   and   Poverty  ?  
  Crimes borrow their comparative shade of enormity from the people who perpetrate them: thus
      is it that the wealthy may commit all social offences with impunity; while the poor are cast
      into dungeons and coerced with chains, for only following at a humble distance in the pathway
      of their lordly precedents.  
  From this city of strange contrasts branch off two roads, leading to two points totally
      distinct the one from the other.  
  One winds its tortuous way through all the noisome dens, of crime, chicanery, dissipation,
      and voluptuousness: the other meanders amidst rugged rocks and wearisome acclivities, it is
      true, but on the wayside are the resting-places of rectitude and virtue.  
  Along those roads two youths are journeying.  
  They have started from the same point; but one pursues the former path, and the other the
      latter.  
  Both come from the city of fearful contrasts; and both follow the wheels of fortune in
      different directions.  
  Where is that city of fearful contrasts?  
  Who are those youths that have thus entered upon paths so opposite the one to the other?  
  And to what destinies do those separate roads conduct them?  
  
  CHAPTER I. THE OLD HOUSE IN SMITHFIELD.  
  OUR narrative opens at the commencement of July, 1831.  
   they were for awhile tinged, became sombre and menacing. The blue portions of
      the sky that here and there had appeared before the sunset, were now rapidly covered over with
      those murky clouds which are the hiding-places of the storm, and which seemed to roll
      themselves together in dense and compact masses, ere they commenced the elemental war.  
  In the same manner do the earthly squadrons of cavalry and mighty columns of infantry form
      themselves into one collected armament, that the power of their onslaught may be the more
      terrific and irresistible.  
  That canopy of dark and threatening clouds was formed over London; and a stifling heat,
      which there was not a breath of wind to allay or mitigate, pervaded the streets of the great
      metropolis.  
  Everything portended an awful storm.  
  In the palace of the peer and the hovel of the artisan the windows were thrown up; and at
      many, both men and women stood to contemplate the scene—timid children crowding behind
      them.  
  The heat became more and more oppressive.  
  At length large drops of rain fell, at intervals of two or three inches apart, upon the
      pavement.  
  And then a flash of lightning, like the forked tongue of one of those fiery serpents of
      which we read in oriental tales of magic and enchantment, darted forth from the black clouds
      overhead.  
  At an interval of a few seconds the roar of the thunder, reverberating through the arches of
      heaven—now sinking, now exalting its fearful tone, like the iron wheels of a chariot rolled
      over a road with patches of uneven pavement here and there—stunned every ear, and struck
      terror into many a heart—the innocent as well as the guilty.  
  It died away, like the chariot, in the distance; and then all was solemnly still.  
  The interval of silence which succeeds the protracted thunder-clap is appalling in the
      extreme.  
  A little while—and again the lightning illuminated the entire vault above: and again the
      thunder, in unequal tones,—amongst which was one resembling the rattling of many vast iron
      bars together,—awoke every echo of the metropolis from north to south, and from east to
      west.  
  This time the dread interval of silence was suddenly interrupted by the torrents of rain
      that now deluged the streets.  
  There was not a breath of air; and the rain fell as perpendicularly straight as a line. But
      with it came a sense of freshness and of a pure atmosphere, which formed an agreeable and
      cheering contrast to the previously suffocating heat. It was like the spring of the oasis to
      the wanderer in the burning desert.  
  But still the lightning played, and the thunder rolled, above.  
  At the first explosion of the storm, amidst the thousands of men and women and children, who
      were seen hastening hither and thither, in all directions, as if they were flying from the
      plague, was one person on whose exterior none could gaze without being inspired with a mingled
      sentiment of admiration and interest.  
  He was a youth, apparently not more than sixteen years of age, although taller than boys
      usually are at that period of life. But the tenderness of his years was divined by the extreme
      effeminacy and juvenile loveliness of his countenance, which was as fair and delicate as that
      of a young girl. His long luxuriant hair, of a beautiful light chestnut colour, and here and
      there borrowing dark shades from the frequent undulations in which it rolled, flowed not only
      over the collar of his closely-buttoned blue frock coat, but also upon his shoulders. Its
      extreme profusion, and the singular manner in which he wore it, were, however, partially
      concealed by the breadth of the brim of his hat, that was placed as it were entirely upon the
      back of his head, and, being thus thrown off his countenance, revealed the high, intelligent,
      and polished forehead above which that rich hair was carefully parted.  
  His frock coat, which was single-breasted, and buttoned up to the throat, set off his
      symmetrical and elegant figure to the greatest advantage. His shoulders were broad, but were
      characterised by that fine fall or slope which is so much admired in the opposite sex. He wore
      spurs upon the heels of his diminutive polished boots; and in his hand he carried a light
      riding-whip. But he was upon foot and alone; and, when the first flash of lightning dazzled
      his expressive hazel eyes, he was hastily traversing the foul and filthy arena of
      Smithfield-market.  
  An imagination poetically inspired would suppose a similitude of a beautiful flower upon a
      fetid manure heap.  
  He cast a glance, which may almost be termed one of affright, around; and his cheek became
      flushed. He had evidently lost his way, and was uncertain where to obtain an asylum against
      the coming storm.  
  The thunder burst above his head; and a momentary shudder passed over his frame. He accosted
      a man to inquire his way; but the answer he received was rude, and associated with a ribald
      joke.  
  He had not courage to demand a second time the information he sought; but, with a species of
      haughty disdain at the threatening storm, and a proud reliance upon himself, proceeded onwards
      at random.  
  He even slackened his pace: a contemptuous smile curled his lips, and the glittering white
      teeth appeared as it were between two rose-leaves.  
  His chest, which was very prominent, rose up and down almost convulsively; for it was
      evident that he endeavoured to master conflicting feelings of vexation, alarm, and disgust—all
      produced by the position in which he found himself.  
  To one so young, so delicate, and so frank in appearance, the mere fact of losing his way by
      night in a disgusting neighbourhood, during an impending storm, and insulted by a low-life
      ruffian, was not the mere trifle which it would have been considered by the hardy and
      experienced man of the world.  
  Not a public conveyance was to be seen; and the doors of all the houses around appeared
      inhospitably closed: and every moment it seemed to grow darker.  
  Accident conducted the interesting young stranger into that labyrinth of narrow and dirty
      streets which lies in the immediate vicinity of the north-western angle of
      Smithfield-market.  
   had never beheld till now a labyrinth of dwellings whose very aspect appeared to
      speak of hideous poverty and fearful crime.  
  Meantime the lightning flashed, and the thunder rolled; and at length the rain poured down
      in torrents. Obeying a mechanical impulse, the youth rushed up the steps of a house at the end
      of one of those dark, narrow, and dirty streets the ominous appearance of which was every now
      and then revealed to him by a light streaming from a narrow window, or the glare of the
      lightning. The framework of the door projected somewhat, and appeared to offer a partial
      protection from the rain. The youth drew as closely up to it as possible; but to his surprise
      it yielded behind him, and burst open. With difficulty he saved himself from falling backwards
      into the passage with which the door communicated.  
  Having recovered from the sudden alarm with which this incident had inspired him, his next
      sentiment was one of pleasure to think that he had thus found a more secure asylum against the
      tempest. He, however, felt wearied—desperately wearied; and his was not a frame calculated to
      bear up against the oppressive and crushing feeling of fatigue. He determined to penetrate,
      amidst the profound darkness by which he was surrounded, into the dwelling; thinking that if
      there were any inmates they would not refuse him the accommodation of a chair; and if there
      were none, he might find a seat upon the staircase.  
  He advanced along the passage, and groped about. His hand encountered the lock of a door: he
      opened it, and entered a room. All was dark as pitch. At that moment a flash of lightning,
      more than usually vivid and prolonged, illuminated the entire scene. The glance which he cast
      around was as rapid as the glare which made objects visible to him for a few moments. He was
      in a room entirely empty; but in the middle of the floor—only three feet from the spot where
      he stood—there was a large square of jet blackness.  
  The lightning passed away: utter darkness again surrounded him; and he was unable to
      ascertain what that black square, so well defined and apparent upon the dirty floor, could
      be.  
  An indescribable sensation of fear crept over him; and the perspiration broke out upon his
      forehead in large drops. His knees bent beneath him; and, retreating a few steps, he leaned
      against the door-posts for support.  
  He was alone—in an uninhabited house, in the midst of a horrible neighbourhood; and all the
      fearful tales of midnight murders which he had ever heard or read, rushed to his memory: then,
      by a strange but natural freak of the fancy, those appalling deeds of blood and crime were
      suddenly associated with that incomprehensible but ominous black square upon the floor.  
  He was in the midst of this terrible waking dream—this more than ideal nightmare—when hasty
      steps approached the front door from the street; and, without stopping, entered the passage.
      The youth crept silently towards the farther end, the perspiration oozing from every pore. He
      felt the staircase with his hands; the footsteps advanced; and, light as the fawn, he hurried
      up the stairs. So noiseless were his motions, that his presence was not noticed by the
      new-comers, who in their turns also ascended the staircase.  
  The youth reached a landing, and hastily felt for the doors of the rooms with which it
      communicated. In another moment he was in a chamber, at the back part of the house. He closed
      the door, and placed himself against it with all his strength—forgetful, poor youth! that his
      fragile form was unavailing, with all its power, against even the single arm of a man of only
      ordinary strength.  
  Meantime the new-comers ascended the stairs.  
  
  CHAPTER II. THE MYSTERIES OF THE OLD HOUSE.  
  FORTUNATELY for the interesting young stranger, the individuals who had just entered the
      house did not attempt the door of the room in which he had taken refuge. They proceeded
      straight—and with a steadiness which seemed to indicate that they knew the locality well—to
      the front chamber upon the same floor.  
  In a few moments there was a sharp grating noise along the wall; and then a light suddenly
      shone into the room where the young stranger was concealed. He cast a terrified glance around,
      and beheld a small square window in the wall, which separated the two apartments. It was about
      five feet from the floor—a height which permitted the youth to avail himself of it, in order
      to reconnoitre the proceedings in the next room.  
  By means of a candle which had been lighted by the aid of a lucifer-match, and which stood
      upon a dirty deal table, the young stranger beheld two men, whose outward appearance did not
      serve to banish his alarm. They were dressed like operatives of the most humble class. One
      wore a gabardine and coarse leather gaiters, with laced-up boots; the other had on a fustian
      shooting-jacket and long corduroy trousers. They were both dirty and unshaven. The one with
      the shooting-jacket had a profusion of hair about his face, but which was evidently not well
      acquainted with a comb: the other wore no whiskers, but his beard was of three or four days'
      growth. Both were powerful, thick-set, and muscular men; and the expression of their
      countenances was dogged, determined, and ferocious.  
  The room to which they had betaken themselves was cold, gloomy, and dilapidated. It was
      furnished with the deal table before mentioned, and three old crazy chairs, upon two of which
      the men now seated themselves. But they were so placed that they commanded, their door being
      open, a full view of the landing-place; and thus the youthful stranger deemed it impolitic to
      attempt to take his departure for the moment.  
  "Now, Bill, out with the bingo," said the man in the gabardine to his companion.  
  "Oh! you're always for the lush, you are, Dick," answered the latter in a surly tone,
      producing at the same time a bottle of liquor from the capacious pocket of his fustian coat.
      "But I wonder how the devil it is that Crankey Jem ain't come yet. Who the deuce could have
      left that infernal door open?"  
  "Jem or some of the other blades must have been here and left it so. It don't matter; it
      lulls suspicion."  
    
  "Look alive, then," said Dick; and he forthwith took from beneath his gabardine several
      small parcels done up in brown paper.  
  The other man likewise divested the pockets of his fustian coat of divers packages; and all
      these were piled upon the table.  
  A strange and mysterious proceeding then took place.  
  The person in the fustian coat approached the chimney, and applied a small turnscrew, which
      he took from his pocket, to a screw in the iron frame-work of the rusty grate. In a few
      moments he was enabled to remove the entire grate with his hands; a square aperture of
      considerable dimensions was then revealed. Into this place the two men thrust the parcels
      which they had taken from their pockets: the grate was replaced, the screws were fastened once
      more, and the work of concealment was complete.  
  The one in the gabardine then advanced towards that portion of the wall which was between
      the two windows; and the youth in the adjoining room now observed for the first time that the
      shutters of those windows were closed, and that coarse brown paper had been pasted all over
      the chinks and joints. Dick applied his hand in a peculiar manner to the part of the wall just
      alluded to, and a sliding panel immediately revealed a capacious cupboard. Thence the two men
      took food of by no means a coarse description, glasses, pipes, and tobacco; and, having
      hermetically closed the recess once more, seated themselves at the table to partake of the
      good cheer thus mysteriously supplied.  
  The alarm of the poor youth in the next chamber, as he contemplated these extraordinary
      proceedings, may be better conceived than depicted. His common sense told him that he was in
      the den of lawless thieves—perhaps murderers; in a house abounding with the secret means of
      concealing every kind of infamy. His eyes wandered away from the little window that had
      enabled him to observe the above-described proceedings, and glanced fearfully around the room
      in which he was concealed. He almost expected to see the very floor open beneath his feet. He
      looked down mechanically as this idea flitted through his imagination; and to his horror and
      dismay he beheld a trap-door in the floor. There was no mistaking it: there it was—about three
      feet long and two broad, and a little sunken beneath the level of its frame-work.  
  Near the edge of the trap-door lay an object which also attracted the youth's attention and
      added to his fears. It was a knife with a long blade pointed like a dagger. About three inches
      of this blade was covered with a peculiar rust: the youth shuddered; could it be human blood
      that had stained that instrument of death?  
  Every circumstance, however trivial, aided, in such a place as that, to arouse or confirm
      the worst fears, the most horrible suspicions.  
  The voices of the two men in the next room fell upon the youth's ear; and, perceiving that
      escape was still impracticable, he determined to gratify that curiosity which was commingled
      with his fears.  
  "Well, now, about this t'other job, Dick?" said Bill.  
  "It's Jem as started it," was the reply. "But he told me all about it, and so we may as well
      talk it over. It's up Islington way—up there between Kentish Town and Lower Holloway."  
  "Who's crib is it?"  
  "A swell of the name of Markham. He is an old fellow, and has two sons. One, the eldest, is
      with his regiment; t'other, the youngest, is only about fifteen, or so—a mere kid."  
  "Well, there's no danger to be expected from him. But what about the flunkies?"  
  "Only two man-servants and three vimen. One of the man-servants is the old butler, too fat
      to do any good; and t'other is a young tiger."  
  "And that's all?"  
  "That's all. Now you, and I, and Jem is quite enough to crack that there crib. When is it to
      be done?"  
  "Let's say to-morrow night; there is no moon now to speak on, and business in other quarters
      is slack."  
  "So be it. Here goes, then, to the success of our new job at old Markham's;" and as the
      burglar uttered these words he tossed off a bumper of brandy.  
  This example was followed by his worthy companion; and their conversation then turned upon
      other topics.  
  "I say, Bill, this old house has seen some jolly games, han't it?"  
  "I should think it had too. It was Jonathan Wild's favourite crib; and he was no fool at
      keeping things dark."  
  "No, surely. I dare say the well-staircase in the next room there, that's covered over with
      the trap-door, has had many a dead body flung down it into the Fleet."  
  "Ah! and without telling no tales too. But the trap-door has been nailed over for some years
      now."  
  The unfortunate youth in the adjacent chamber was riveted in silent horror to the spot, as
      these fearful details fell upon his ears.  
  "Why was the trap-door nailed down?"  
  "'Cos there's no use for   that   now, since the house is uninhabited, and no more
      travellers comes to lodge here. Besides, if we wanted to make use of such a conwenience,
      there's another——"  
  A loud clap of thunder prevented the remainder of this sentence from reaching the youth's
      ears.  
  "I've heard it said that the City is going to make great alterations in this quarter,"
      observed Dick, after a pause. "If so be they comes near us, we must shift our quarters."  
  "Well, and don't we know other cribs as good as this—and just under the very nose of the
      authorities too? The nearer you gets to them the safer you finds yourself. Who'd think now
      that here, and in Peter-street, and on Saffron-hill too, there was such cribs as this? Lord,
      how such coves as you and me does laugh when them chaps in the Common Council and the House of
      Commons gets on their legs and praises the blue-bottles up to the skies as the most acutest
      police in the world, while they wotes away the people's money to maintain 'em!"  
  "Oh! as for alterations, I don't suppose there'll be any for the next twenty years to come.
      They always talks of improvements long afore they begins 'em."  
  "But when they   do   commence, they won't spare this lovely old crib! It 'ud go to my
      heart to see them pull it about. I'd much sooner take and shove a dozen stiff uns myself down
      the trap than see a single rafter of the place ill-treated—that I would."  
   made known to the world. Them cellars down stairs, in which a man might hide for
      fifty years and never be smelt out by the police, will turn up a bone or two, I rather
      suspect; and not of a sheep, nor a pig, nor a bull neither."  
  "Why—half the silly folks in this neighbourhood are afeerd to come here even in the daytime,
      because they say it's haunted," observed Bill, after a brief pause. "But, for my part, I
      shouldn't be frightened to come here at all hours of the night, and sit here alone too, even
      if every feller as was scragged at Tyburn or Newgate, and every one wot has been tumbled down
      these holes into the Fleet, was to start up, and——"  
  The man stopped short, turned ghastly pale, and fell back stupified and speechless in his
      chair. His pipe dropped from between his fingers, and broke to pieces upon the floor.  
  "What the devil's the matter now?" demanded his companion, casting an anxious glance
      around.  
  "There! there! don't you see——," gasped the terrified ruffian, pointing towards the little
      window looking into the next room.  
  "It's only some d——d gammon of Crankey Jem," ejaculated Dick, who was more courageous in
      such matters than his companion. "I'll deuced soon put that to rights!"  
  Seizing the candle, he was hurrying towards the door, when his comrade rushed after him,
      crying, "No—I won't be left in the dark! I can't bear it! Damme, if you go, I'll go with
      you!"  
  The two villains accordingly proceeded together into the next room.  
  
  CHAPTER III. THE TRAP-DOOR.  
  THE youthful stranger had listened with ineffable surprise and horror to the conversation of
      the two ruffians. His nerves had been worked up by all the circumstances of the evening to a
      tone bordering upon madness—to that pitch, indeed, when it appeared as if there were no
      alternative left save to fall upon the floor and yield to the   delirium tremens   of
      violent emotions.  
  He had restrained his feelings while he heard the burglary at Mr. Markham's dwelling coolly
      planned and settled; but when the discourse of those two monsters in human shape developed to
      his imagination all the horrors of the fearful place in which he had sought an asylum,—when he
      heard that he was actually standing upon the very verge of that staircase down which
      innumerable victims had been hurled to the depths of the slimy ditch beneath,—and when he
      thought how probable it was that his bones were doomed to whiten in the dark and hidden
      caverns below, along with the remains of other human beings who had been barbarously murdered
      in cold blood,—reason appeared to forsake him. A cold sweat broke forth all over him; and he
      seemed about to faint under the impression of a hideous nightmare.  
  He threw his hat upon the floor—for he felt the want of air. That proud forehead, that
      beautiful countenance were distorted with indescribable horror; and an ashy pallor spread
      itself over his features.  
  Death, in all its most hideous forms, appeared to follow—to surround—to hem him in. There
      was no escape:—a trap-door here—a well, communicating with the ditch, there—or else the
      dagger;—no matter in what shape—still Death was before him—behind him—above him—below him—on
      every side of him.  
  It was horrible—most horrible!  
  Then was it that a sudden thought flashed across his brain; he resolved to attempt a
      desperate effort to escape. He summoned all his courage to his aid, and opened the door so
      cautiously that, though the hinges were old and rusted, they did not creak.  
  The crisis was now at hand. If he could clear the landing unperceived, he was safe. It was
      true that, seen or unseen, he might succeed in escaping from the house by means of his
      superior agility and nimbleness; but he reflected that these men would capture him, again, in
      a few minutes, in the midst of a labyrinth of streets with which he was utterly unacquainted,
      but which they knew so well. He remembered that he had overheard their secrets and witnessed
      their mysterious modes of concealment; and that, should he fall into their power, death must
      inevitably await him.  
  These ideas crossed his brain in a moment, and convinced him of the necessity of prudence
      and extreme caution. He must leave the house unperceived, and dare the pitiless storm and
      pelting rain; for the tempest still raged without.  
  He once more approached the window to ascertain if there were any chance of stealing across
      the landing-place unseen. Unfortunately he drew too near the window: the light of the candle
      fell full upon his countenance, which horror and alarm had rendered deadly pale and fearfully
      convulsed.  
  It was at this moment that the ruffian, in the midst of his unholy vaunts, had caught sight
      of that human face—white as a sheet—and with eyes fixed upon him with a glare which his
      imagination rendered stony and unearthly.  
  The youth saw that he was discovered; and a full sense of the desperate peril which hung
      over him, rushed to his mind. He turned, and endeavoured to fly away from the fatal spot; but,
      as imagination frequently fetters the limbs in a nightmare, and involves the sleeper in danger
      from which he vainly attempts to run, so did his legs now refuse to perform their office.  
  His brain whirled—his eyes grew dim: he grasped at the wall to save himself from falling—but
      his senses were deserting him—and he sank fainting upon the floor.  
  He awoke from the trance into which he had fallen, and became aware that he was being moved
      along. Almost at the same instant his eyes fell upon the sinister countenance of Dick, who was
      carrying him by the feet. The other ruffian was supporting his head.  
  They were lifting him down the staircase, upon the top step of which the candle was
      standing.  
  All the incidents of the evening immediately returned to the memory of the wretched boy, who
      now only too well comprehended the desperate perils that surrounded him.  
  The bottom of the staircase was reached: the villains deposited their burden for a moment in
      the passage, while Dick retraced his steps to fetch down the candle.  
   remain silent or cry out. He dreamt of immediate—instantaneous death; and yet he
      thought that he was young to die—oh! so young—and that men could not be such barbarians——  
  But when the two ruffians stooped down to take him up again, fear surmounted all other
      sentiments, feelings, and inclinations; and his deep—his profound—his heartfelt agony was
      expressed in one long, loud, and piercing shriek!  
  And then a fearful scene took place.  
  The two villains carried the youth into the front room upon the ground-floor, and laid him
      down for a moment.  
  It was the same room to which he had first found his way upon entering that house.  
  It was the room in which, by the glare of the evanescent lightning, he had seen that black
      square upon the dirty floor.  
  For a few instants all was dark. At length the candle was brought by the man in the fustian
      coat.  
  The youth glanced wildly around him, and speedily recognised that room.  
  He remembered how deep a sensation of horror seized him when that black square upon the
      floor first caught his eyes.  
  He raised himself upon his left arm, and once more looked around.  
  Great God! was it possible?  
  That ominous blackness—that sinister square was the mouth of a yawning gulf, the trap-door
      of which was raised.  
  A fetid smell rose from the depths below, and the gurgling of a current was faintly
      heard.  
  The dread truth was in a moment made apparent to that unhappy boy—much more quickly than it
      occupies to relate or read. He started from his supine posture, and fell upon his knees at the
      feet of those merciless villains who had borne him thither.  
  "Mercy, mercy! I implore you! Oh! do not devote me to so horrible a death! Do not—  do not
       murder me  !"  
  "Hold your noisy tongue, you fool," ejaculated Bill, brutally. "You have heard and seen too
      much for our safety; we can't do otherwise."  
  "No, certainly not," added Dick. "You are now as fly to the fakement as any one of us."  
  "Spare me, spare me, and I will never betray you! Oh! do not send me out of this world, so
      young—so very young! I have money, I have wealth, I am rich, and I will give you all I
      possess!" ejaculated the agonized youth; his countenance wearing an expression of horrible
      despair.  
  "Come; here's enough. Bill, lend a hand!" and Dick seized the boy by one arm, while his
      companion took a firm hold of the other.  
  "Mercy, mercy!" shrieked the youth, struggling violently; but struggling vainly. "You will
      repent when you know—— I am not what I——"  
  He said no more: his last words were uttered over the mouth of the chasm ere the ruffians
      loosened their hold;—and then he fell.  
  The trap-door was closed violently over the aperture, and drowned the scream of agony which
      burst from his lips.  
  The two murderers then retraced their steps to the apartment on the first floor.  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  On the following day, about one o'clock, Mr. Markham, a gentleman of fortune residing in the
      northern environs of London, received the following letter:—  
  
  "The inscrutable decrees of Providence have enabled the undersigned to warn you, that this
       night a burglarious attempt will be made upon your dwelling. The wretches who contemplate
       this infamy are capable of a crime of much blacker die. Beware!  
  "AN UNKNOWN FRIEND."  
  
  This letter was written in a beautiful feminine hand. Due precaution was adopted at Mr.
      Markham's mansion; but the attempt alluded to in the warning epistle was, for some reason or
      another, not made.  
  
  CHAPTER IV. THE TWO TREES.  
  IT was between eight and nine o'clock, on a delicious evening, about a week after the events
      related in the preceding chapters, that two youths issued from Mr. Markham's handsome, but
      somewhat secluded dwelling, in the northern part of the environs of London, and slowly
      ascended the adjacent hill. There was an interval of four years between the ages of these
      youths, the elder being upwards of nineteen, and the younger about fifteen; but it was easy to
      perceive by the resemblance which existed between them that they were brothers. They walked at
      a short distance from each other, and exchanged not a word as they ascended the somewhat steep
      path which conducted them to the summit of the eminence that overlooked the mansion they had
      just left. The elder proceeded first; and from time to time he clenched his fists, and knit
      his brows, and gave other silent but expressive indications of the angry passions which were
      concentrated in his breast. His brother followed him with downcast eyes, and with a
      countenance denoting the deep anguish that oppressed him. In this manner they arrived at the
      top of the hill, where they seated themselves upon a bench, which stood between two young ash
      saplings.  
  For a long time the brothers remained silent; but at length the younger of the two suddenly
      burst into tears, and exclaimed, "Oh! why, dearest Eugene, did we choose this spot to say
      farewell—perhaps for ever?"  
  "We could not select a more appropriate one, Richard," returned the elder brother. "Four
      years ago those trees were planted by our hands; and we have ever since called them by our own
      names. When we were wont to separate, to repair to our respective schools, we came hither to
      talk over our plans, to arrange the periods of our correspondence, and to anticipate the
      pursuits that should engage us during the vacations. And when we returned from our seminaries,
      we hastened hither, hand-in-hand, to see how our trees flourished; and he was most joyous and
      proud whose sapling appeared to expand the more luxuriantly. If ever we quarrelled, Richard,
      it was here that we made our peace again; and, seated upon this bench, we have concocted plans
      for the future; which, haply, will never now be realised!"  
   all those happy days to which you allude that now render this moment the more
      bitter. Tell me, must you depart? Is there no alternative? Can I not intercede with our
      father? Surely, surely, he will not discard one so young as you, and whom he has loved—must
      still love—so tenderly?"  
  "Intercede with my father!" repeated Eugene, with an irony which seemed extraordinary in one
      of his tender age; "no, never! He has signified his desire, he has commanded me no longer
         to pollute his dwelling  —those were his very words, and he shall be obeyed."  
  "Our father was incensed, deeply incensed, when he spoke," urged Richard, whose voice was
      rendered almost inaudible by his sobs; "and to-morrow he will repent of his harshness towards
      you."  
  "Our father had no right to blame me," said Eugene violently; "all that has occurred
      originated in his own conduct towards me. The behaviour of a parent to his son is the element
      of that son's ruin or success in after life."  
  "I know not how you can reproach our father, Eugene," said Richard, somewhat reproachfully,
      "for he has ever conducted himself with tenderness towards us; and since the death of our dear
      mother——"  
  "You are yet too young, Richard," interrupted Eugene impatiently, "to comprehend the nature
      of the accusation which I bring against my father. I will, however, attempt to enable you to
      understand my meaning, so that you may not imagine that I am acting with duplicity when I
      endeavour to find a means of extenuation, if not of justification, for my own conduct. My
      father lavished his gold upon my education, as he also did upon yours; and he taught us from
      childhood to consider ourselves the sons of wealthy parents who would enable their children to
      move with éclat in an elevated sphere of life. It was just this day year that I joined my
      regiment at Knightsbridge. I suddenly found myself thrown amongst gay, dissipated, and wealthy
      young men—my brother officers. Many of them were old acquaintances, and had been my companions
      at the Royal Military College at Sandhurst. They speedily enlisted me in all their pleasures
      and debaucheries, and my expenditure soon exceeded my pay and my allowance. I became involved
      in debts, and was compelled to apply to my father to relieve me from my embarrassments. I
      wrote a humble and submissive letter, expressing contrition for my faults, and promising to
      avoid similar pursuits in future. Indeed, I was wearied of the dissipation into which I had
      plunged, and should have profited well by the experience my short career of pleasure and folly
      had enabled me to acquire. I trembled upon that verge when my father could either ruin or save
      me. He did not reply to my letter, and I had not courage to seek an interview with him. Again
      did I write to him: no answer. I had lost money at private play, and had contracted debts in
      the same manner. Those, Richard, are called   debts of honour  , and must be paid in full
      to your creditor, however wealthy he may be, even though your servants and tradesmen should be
      cheated out of their hard-earned and perhaps much-needed money altogether. I wrote a third
      time to our father, and still no notice was taken of my appeal. The officers to whom I owed
      the money lost at play began to look coldly upon me, and I was reduced to a state of
      desperation. Still I waited for a few days, and for a fourth time wrote to my father. It
      appears that he was resolved to make me feel the inconvenience of the position in which I had
      placed myself by my follies; and he sent me no answer. I then called at the house, and he
      refused to see me. This you know, Richard. What could I do? Driven mad by constant demands for
      money which I could not pay, and smarting under the chilling glances and taunting allusions of
      my brother officers, I sold my commission. You are acquainted with the rest. I came home,
      threw myself at my father's feet, and he spurned me away from him! Richard, was my crime so
      very great? and has not the unjust, the extreme severity of my father been the cause of all my
      afflictions?"  
  "I dare not judge between you," said Richard mildly.  
  "But what does common sense suggest?" demanded Eugene.  
  "Doubtless our father knows best," returned the younger brother.  
  "Old men are often wrong, in spite of their experience—in spite of their years," persisted
      Eugene.  
  "My dear brother," said Richard, "I am afraid to exercise my judgment in a case where I
      stand a chance of rebelling against my father, or questioning his wisdom; and, at the same
      time, I am anxious to believe everything in your justification."  
  "I knew that you would not comprehend me," exclaimed Eugene, impatiently. "It is ridiculous
      not to dare to have an opinion of one's own! My dear brother," he added, turning suddenly
      round, "you have been to Eton to little purpose: I thought that nearly as much of the world
      was to be seen there as at Sandhurst. I find that I was mistaken."  
  And Eugene felt and looked annoyed at the turn which the conversation had taken.  
  Richard was unhappy, and remained silent.  
  In the meantime the sun had set; and the darkness was gradually becoming more intense.  
  Suddenly Eugene grasped his brother's hand, and exclaimed, "Richard, I shall now
      depart!"  
  "Impossible!" cried the warm-hearted youth: "you will not leave me thus—you will not abandon
      your father also, for a hasty word that he has spoken, and which he will gladly recal
      to-morrow? Oh! no—Eugene, you will not leave the dwelling in which you were born, and where
      you have passed so many happy hours! What will become of you? What do you purpose? What plan
      have you in view?"  
  "I have a few guineas in my pocket," returned Eugene; "and many a princely fortune has been
      based upon a more slender foundation."  
  "Yes," said Richard hastily; "you read of fortunes being easily acquired in novels and
      romances; and in past times persons may have enriched themselves suddenly; but in the great
      world of the present day, Eugene, I am afraid that such occurrences are rare and seldom
      seen."  
   who has caused my ruin at my very first entrance into life."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "May God prosper your pursuits, and lend you the fortune which you appear to aim at!"
      ejaculated Richard fervently. "But once again—and for the last time, let me implore you—let me
      entreat you not to put this rash and hasty resolve into execution. Do stay—do not leave me, my
      dearest, dearest brother!"  
  "Richard, not all the powers of human persuasion shall induce me to abandon my present
      determination," cried Eugene emphatically, and rising from the bench as he spoke. "It is
      growing late, and I must depart. Now listen, my dear boy, to what I have to say to you."  
  "Speak, speak!" murmured Richard, sobbing as if his heart would break.  
  "All will be yet well," said Eugene, slightly touched by his brother's profound affliction.
      "I am resolved not to set foot in my father's house again; you must return thither and pack me
      up my papers and a few necessaries."  
  "And you will not leave this spot until my return?" said Richard.  
  "Solemnly I promise   that  ," answered Eugene. "But stay; on your part you must
      faithfully pledge yourself not to seek my father, nor in any way interfere between him and me.
      Nay, do not remonstrate; you must promise."  
  "I promise you all—anything you require," said Richard mournfully; and, after affectionately
      embracing his brother, he hurried down the hill towards the mansion, turning back from time to
      time to catch a glimpse of Eugene's figure through the increasing gloom, to satisfy himself
      that he was still there between the two saplings.  
   time to prevent Eugene's departure; but he remembered his solemn promise, and he
      would not break it. Assuredly this was a sense of honour so extreme, that it might be
      denominated   false  ; but it was, nevertheless, the sentiment which controlled all the
      actions of him who cherished it. Tenderly, dearly as he loved his brother—bitterly as he
      deplored his intended departure, he still would not forfeit his word and take the simple step
      which would probably have averted the much-dreaded evil. Richard's sense of honour and
      inflexible integrity triumphed, on all occasions, over every other consideration, feeling, and
      desire; and of this characteristic of his brother's nature Eugene was well aware.  
  Richard had made a small package of the articles which he had selected, and was about to
      leave the room to return to his brother, when the sound of a footstep in the passage
      communicating with the chamber, suddenly fell upon his ear.  
  Scarcely had he time to recover from the alarm into which this circumstance had thrown him,
      when the door slowly opened, and the butler entered the apartment.  
  He was a man of about fifty years of age, with a jolly red face, a somewhat bulbous nose,
      small laughing eyes, short grey hair standing upright in front, whiskers terminating an inch
      above his white cravat, and in person considerably inclined to corpulency. In height he was
      about five feet seven inches, and had a peculiar shuffling rapid walk, which he had learnt by
      some twenty-five years' practice in little journeys from the sideboard in the dining-room to
      his own pantry, and back again. He was possessed of an excellent heart, and was a
      good-humoured companion; but pompous, and swelling with importance in the presence of those
      whom he considered his inferiors. He was particularly addicted to hard words; and as, to use
      his own expression, he was "self-taught," it is not to be wondered if he occasionally gave
      those aforesaid hard words a pronunciation and a meaning which militated a little against
      received rules. In attire, he was unequalled for the whiteness of his cravat, the exuberance
      of his shirt-frill, the elegance of his waistcoat, the set of his kerseymere tights, and the
      punctilious neatness of his black silk stockings, and his well-polished shoes.  
  "Well, Master Richard," said the butler, as he shuffled into the room, with a white napkin
      under his left arm, "what in the name of everythink indiwisible is the matter now?"  
  "Nothing, nothing, Whittingham," replied the youth. "You had better go down stairs—my father
      may want you."  
  "If so be your father wants anythink, Tom will despond to the summins as usual," said the
      butler, leisurely seating himself upon a chair close by the table whereon Richard had placed
      his package. "But might I be so formiliar as to inquire into the insignification of that
      bundle of shirts and ankerchers."  
  "Whittingham, I implore you to ask me no questions: I am in a hurry—and——"  
  "Master Richard, Master Richard," cried the butler, shaking his head gravely, "I'm very much
      afeerd that somethink preposterious is going to incur. I could not remain a entire stranger to
      all that has transpirated this day; and now I know what it is," he added, slapping his right
      hand smartly upon his thigh; "your brother's a-going to amputate it!"  
  "To what?"  
  "To cut it, then, if you reprehend that better. But it shan't be done, Master Richard—it
      shan't be done!'  
  "Whittingham——"  
  "That's my nomenklitter, Master Richard," said the old man, doggedly; "and it was one of the
      fust you ever learned to pernounce. Behold ye, Master Richard, I have a right to speak—for I
      have knowed you both from your cradles—and loved you too! Who was it, when you come into this
      subluminary spear—who was it as nussed you—and——"  
  "Good Whittingham, I know all that, and——"  
  "I have no overdue curiosity to satisfy, Master Richard," observed the butler; "but my
      soul's inflicted to think that you and Master Eugene couldn't make a friend of old
      Whittingham. I feel it here, Master Richard—here, in my buzzim!"—and the worthy old domestic
      dealt himself a tremendous blow upon the chest as he uttered these words.  
  "I must leave you now, Whittingham; and I desire you to remain here until my return," said
      Richard. "Do you hear, Whittingham?"  
  "Yes, Master Richard; but I don't choose to do as you would wish in this here instance. I
      shall foller you."  
  "What, Whittingham?"  
  "I shall foller you, sir."  
  "Well—you can do that," said Richard, suddenly remembering that his brother had in nowise
      cautioned him against such an intervention as this; "and pray God it may lead to some
      good."  
  "Ah! now I see that I am raly wanted," said the butler, a smile of satisfaction playing upon
      his rubicund countenance.  
  Richard now led the way from the apartment, the butler following him in a stately manner.
      They descended the stairs, crossed the garden, and entered the path which led to the top of
      the hill.  
  "Two trees, I suppose?" said the old domestic inquiringly.  
  "Yes—he is there!" answered Richard; "but the reminiscence of the times when we planted
      those saplings has failed to induce him to abandon a desperate resolution."  
  "Ah! he ain't got Master Richard's heart—I always knowed that," mused the old man half
      audibly as he trudged along. "There are them two lads—fine tall youths—both black hair, and
      intelligible black eyes—admirably formed—straight as arrows—and yet so diversified in
      disposition!"  
  Richard and the butler now reached the top of the hill. Eugene was seated upon the bench in
      a deep reverie; and it was not until his brother and the faithful old domestic stood before
      him, that he awoke from that fit of abstraction.  
  "What! Is that you, Whittingham?" he exclaimed, the moment he recognised the butler.
      "Richard, I did not think you would have done this."  
  "It wasn't Master Richard's fault, sir," said Whittingham; "I was rayther too wide awake not
      to smell what was a-going on by virtue of my factory nerves; and so——"  
  "My dear Whittingham," hastily interrupted Eugene, "I know that you are a faithful servant
      to my father, and very much attached to us: on that very account, pray do not interfere!"  
   amazed at being thus addressed, while a tear started into his eye: "not
      interfere Master Eugene? Well, I'm—I'm—I'm—regularly flabbergasted!"  
  "My mind is made up," said Eugene, "and no persuasion shall alter its decision. I am my own
      master—my father's conduct has emancipated me from all deference to parental authority.
      Richard, you have brought my things? We must now say adieu."  
  "My dearest brother——"  
  "Master Eugene——"  
  "Whither are you going?"  
  "I am on the road to fame and fortune!"  
  "Alas!" said Richard mournfully, "you may perhaps find that this world is not so fruitful in
      resources as you now imagine."  
  "All remonstrances—all objections are vain," interrupted Eugene impatiently. "We must say
      adieu! But one word more," he added, after an instant's pause, as a sudden thought seemed to
      strike him; "  you   doubt the possibility of my success in life, and I feel confident of
      it. Do   you   pursue your career under the auspices of that parent in whose wisdom you
      so blindly repose: I will follow   mine  , dependent only on mine own resources. This is
      the 10th of July, 1831; twelve years hence, on the 10th of July, 1843, we will meet again upon
      this very spot, between the two trees, if they be still standing. Remember the appointment: we
      will   then   compare notes relative to our success in life!"  
  The moment he had uttered these words, Eugene hastily embraced his brother, who struggled in
      vain to retain him; and, having wrung the hand of the old butler, who was now sobbing like a
      child, the discarded son threw his little bundle over his shoulder, and hurried away from the
      spot.  
  So precipitately did he descend the hill in the direction leading away from the mansion, and
      towards the multitudinous metropolis at a little distance, that he was out of sight before his
      brother or Whittingham even thought of pursuing him.  
  They lingered for some time upon the summit of the hill, without exchanging a word; and
      then, maintaining the same silence, slowly retraced their steps towards the mansion.  
  
  CHAPTER V. ELIGIBLE ACQUAINTANCES.  
  FOUR years passed away.  
  During that interval no tidings of the discarded son reached the disconsolate father and
      unhappy brother; and all the exertions of the former to discover some trace of the fugitive
      were fruitless. Vainly did he lavish considerable sums upon that object: uselessly did he
      despatch emissaries to all the great manufacturing towns of England, as well as to the
      principal capitals of Europe, to endeavour to procure some information of him whom he would
      have received as the prodigal son, and to welcome whose return he would have "killed the
      fatted calf:"—all his measures to discover his son's retreat were unavailing.  
  At length, after a lapse of four years, he sank into the tomb—the victim of a broken
      heart!  
  A few days previous to his death, he made a will in favour of his remaining son, the
      guardianship of whom he intrusted to a Mr. Monroe, who was an opulent City merchant, and an
      old and sincere friend.  
  Thus, at the age of nineteen, Richard found himself his own master, with a handsome
      allowance to meet his present wants, and with a large fortune in the perspective of two years
      more. Mr. Monroe, feeling the utmost confidence in the young man's discretion and steadiness,
      permitted him to reside in the old family mansion, and interfered with him and his pursuits as
      little as possible.  
  The ancient abode of the family of Markham was a spacious and commodious building, but of
      heavy and sombre appearance. This gloomy aspect of the architecture was increased by the
      venerable trees that formed a dense rampart of verdure around the edifice. The grounds
      belonging to the house were not extensive, but were tastefully laid out; and within the
      enclosure over which the dominion of Richard Markham extended, was the green hill surmounted
      by the two ash trees. From the summit of that eminence the mighty metropolis might be seen in
      all its vastitude—that metropolis whose one single heart was agitated with so many myriads of
      conflicting passions, warring interests, and opposite feelings.  
  Perhaps a dozen pages of laboured description will not afford the reader a better idea of
      the characters and dispositions of the two brothers than that which has already been conveyed
      by their conversation and conduct detailed in the preceding chapter. Eugene was all
      selfishness and egotism, Richard all generosity and frankness: the former deceitful, astute,
      and crafty; the latter honourable even to a fault.  
  With Eugene, for the present, we have little to do; the course of our narrative follows the
      fortunes of Richard Markham.  
  The disposition of this young man was somewhat reserved, although by no means misanthropical
      nor melancholy. That characteristic resulted only from the domesticated nature of his habits.
      He was attached to literary pursuits, and frequently passed entire hours together in his
      study, poring over works of a scientific and instructive nature. When he stirred abroad for
      the purpose of air and exercise, he preferred a long ramble upon foot, amongst the fields in
      the vicinity of his dwelling, to a parade of himself and his fine horse amid the busy haunts
      of wealth and fashion at the West End of London.  
  It was, nevertheless, upon a beautiful afternoon in the month of August, 1835, that Richard
      appeared amongst the loungers in Hyde Park. He was on foot, and attired in deep mourning; but
      his handsome countenance, symmetrical form, and thoroughly genteel and unassuming air
      attracted attention.  
  Parliament had been prorogued a fortnight before; and all London was said to be "out of
      town." Albeit, it was evident that a considerable portion of London was "in town," for there
      were many gorgeous equipages rolling along "the drive," and the enclosure was pretty well
      sprinkled with well-dressed groups and dotted with solitary fashionable gentlemen upon
      foot.  
   seated by their sides, and whose wealth had purchased their hands, but never
      succeeded in obtaining their hearts.  
  Richard, wearied with his walk, seated himself upon a bench, and contemplated with some
      interest the moving pageantry before him. He was thus occupied when he was suddenly accosted
      by a stranger, who seated himself by his side in an easy manner, and addressed some
      common-place observation to him.  
  This individual was a man of about two-and-thirty, elegantly attired, agreeable in his
      manners, and prepossessing in appearance. Under this superficial tegument of gentility a
      quicker eye than Richard Markham's would have detected a certain swagger in his gait and a
      kind of dashing recklessness about him which produced an admirable effect upon the vulgar or
      the inexperienced, but which were not calculated to inspire immediate confidence in the
      thorough man of the world. Richard was, however, all frankness and honour himself, and he did
      not scruple to return such an answer to the stranger's remark as was calculated to encourage
      farther conversation.  
  "I see the count is abroad again," observed the stranger, following with his eyes one of the
      horsemen in "the drive." "Poor fellow! he has been playing at hide-and-seek for a long
      time."  
  "Indeed! and wherefore?" exclaimed Richard.  
  "What! are you a stranger in London, sir?" cried the well-dressed gentleman, transferring
      his eyes from the horseman to Markham's countenance, on which they were fixed with an
      expression of surprise and interest.  
  "Very nearly so, although a resident in its immediate vicinity all my life;" and, with the
      natural ingenuousness of youth, Richard immediately communicated his entire history, from
      beginning to end, to his new acquaintance. Of a surety there was not much to relate; but the
      stranger succeeded in finding out who the young man was, under what circumstances he was now
      living, and the amount of his present and future resources.  
  "Of course you mean to see life?" said the stranger.  
  "Certainly. I have already studied the great world by the means of books."  
  "But of course you know that there is nothing like experience."  
  "I can understand how experience is necessary to a man who is anxious to make a fortune, but
      not to him who has already got one."  
  "Oh, decidedly! It is frequently more difficult to keep a fortune than it was to obtain
      one."  
  "How—if I do not speculate?"  
  "No; but others will speculate upon you."  
  "I really cannot comprehend you. As I do not wish to increase my means, having enough, I
      shall neither speculate with my own nor allow people to speculate with it for me; and thus I
      can run no risk of losing what I possess."  
  The stranger gazed half incredulously upon Markham for a minute; and then his countenance
      expressed a species of sneer.  
  "You have never played?"  
  "Played! at——?"  
  "At cards; for money, I mean."  
  "Oh! never!"  
  "So much the better: never do. Unless," added the stranger, "it is entirely amongst friends
      and men of honour. But will you avail yourself of my humble vehicle, and take one turn round
      'the Drive?'"  
  The stranger pointed as he spoke to a very handsome phaeton and pair at a little distance,
      and attended by a dapper-looking servant in light blue livery with silver lace.  
  "Might I have the honour of being acquainted with the name of a gentleman who exhibits so
      much kindness——"  
  "My dear sir, I must really apologise for my sin of omission. You confided your own
      circumstances so frankly to me that I cannot do otherwise than show you equal confidence in
      return. Besides,   amongst men of honour  ," he continued, laying particular stress upon
      a word which is only so frequently used to be abused, "such communications, you know, are
      necessary. I do not like that system of familiarity based upon no tenable grounds, which is
      now becoming so prevalent in London. For instance, nothing is more common than for one
      gentleman to meet another in Bond-street, or the Park, or in Burlington Arcade, for example's
      sake, and for the one to say to the other—'  My dear friend, how are you?  '—'  Quite
       well, old fellow, thank you; but, by-the-by, I really forget your name!  ' However," added
      the fashionable gentleman with a smile, "here is my card. My town-quarters are Long's Hotel,
      my country seat is in Berkshire, and my shooting-box is in Scotland, at all of which I shall
      be most happy to see you."  
  Richard, who was not only highly satisfied with the candour and openness of his new friend,
      but also very much pleased and amused with him, returned suitable acknowledgments for this
      kind invitation; and, glancing his eyes over the card which had been placed in his hands,
      perceived that he was conversing with the   Honourable Arthur Chichester  .  
  As they were moving towards the phaeton, a gentleman, elegantly attired, of about the middle
      age, and particularly fascinating in his manners, accosted Mr. Chichester.  
  "Ah! who would have thought of meeting you here—when London is actually empty, and I am
      ashamed of being yet left in it? Our mutual friend the duke assured me that you were gone to
      Italy!"  
  "The duke always has some joke at my expense," returned Mr. Chichester. "He was once the
      cause of a very lovely girl committing suicide. She was the only one I ever loved; and he one
      day declared in her presence that I had just embarked for America. Poor thing! she went
      straight up to her room, and——"  
  "And!" echoed Richard.  
  "Took poison!" added Mr. Chichester, turning away his head for a moment, and drawing an
      elegant cambric handkerchief across his eyes.  
  "Good heavens!" ejaculated Markham.  
  "Let me not trouble you with my private afflictions. Sir Rupert, allow me to introduce my
      friend Mr. Markham:—Mr. Markham, Sir Rupert Harborough."  
  The two gentlemen bowed, and the introduction was effected.  
  "Whither are you bound?" inquired Sir Rupert.  
  "We were thinking of an hour's drive," leisurely replied Mr. Chichester; "and it was then my
      intention to have asked my friend Mr. Markham to dine with me at Long's. Will you join us, Sir
      Rupert?"  
   greater pleasure; but I am engaged to meet the duke at Tattersall's; and I am
      then under a solemn promise to dine and pass the evening with Diana."  
  "Always gallant—always attentive to the ladies!" exclaimed Mr. Chichester.  
  "You know, my dear fellow, that Diana is so amiable, so talented, so fascinating, so
      accomplished, and so bewitching, that I can refuse her nothing. It is true her wants and whims
      are somewhat expensive at times; but——"  
  "Harborough, I am surprised at you! What! complain of the fantasies of the most beautiful
      woman in London—if not in England—you a man of seven thousand a year, and who at the death of
      an uncle——"  
  "Upon my honour I begrudge her nothing!" interrupted Sir Rupert, complacently stroking his
      chin with his elegantly-gloved hand. "But, by the way, if you will honour me and Diana with
      your company this evening—and if Mr. Markham will also condescend——"  
  "With much pleasure," said Mr. Chichester; "and I am sure that my friend Mr. Markham will
      avail himself of this opportunity of forming the acquaintance of the most beautiful and
      fascinating woman in England."  
  Richard bowed: he dared not attempt an excuse. He had heard himself dubbed the friend of the
      Honourable Mr. Arthur Chichester; his ears had caught an intimation of a dinner at Long's,
      which he knew by report to be the headquarters of that section of the fashionable world that
      consists of single young gentlemen; and he now found himself suddenly engaged to pass the
      evening with Sir Rupert Harborough and a lady of whom all he knew was that her name was Diana,
      and that she was the most beautiful and fascinating creature in England.  
  Truly, all this was enough to dazzle him; and he accordingly resigned himself to Mr. Arthur
      Chichester's good will and pleasure.  
  Sir Rupert Harborough now remembered "that he must not keep the duke waiting;" and having
      kissed the tip of his lemon-coloured glove to Mr. Chichester, and made a semi-ceremonious,
      semi-gracious bow to Markham—that kind of bow whose formality is attempered by the blandness
      of the smile accompanying it—he hastened away.  
  It may be, however, mentioned as a singular circumstance, and as a proof of how little he
      cared about keeping "the duke" waiting, that, instead of proceeding towards Tattersall's, he
      departed in the direction of Oxford-street.  
  This little incident was, however, unnoticed by Richard—for the simple reason, that at this
      epoch of his life he did not know where Tattersall's was.  
  "What do you think of my friend the baronet?" inquired Mr. Chichester, as they rolled
      leisurely along "the Drive" in the elegant phaeton.  
  "I am quite delighted with him," answered Richard; "and if her ladyship be only as agreeable
      as her husband——"  
  "Excuse me, but you must not call her '  her ladyship  .' Address her and speak of her
      simply as Mrs. Arlington."  
  "I am really at a loss to comprehend——"  
  "My dear friend," said Chichester, sinking his voice, although there was no danger of being
      overheard, "Diana is not the wife of Sir Rupert Harborough. The baronet is unmarried; and this
      lady——"  
  "Is his mistress," added Markham hastily. "In that case I most certainly shall not accept
      the kind invitation I received for this evening."  
  "Nonsense, my dear friend! You must adapt your behaviour to the customs of the sphere in
      which you move.   You   belong to the aristocracy—like   me  —and like   the
       baronet  ! In the upper class, even supposing you have a wife, she is only an encumbrance.
      Nothing is so characteristic of want of gentility as to marry early; and as for children, pah!
      they are the very essence of vulgarity! Then, of course, every man of fashion in London has
      his mistress, even though he only keeps her for the sake of his friends. This is quite
      allowable amongst the aristocracy. Remember, I am not advocating the cause of immorality: I
      would not have every butcher, and tea-dealer, and linen-draper do the same. God forbid!
         Then   it would, indeed, be the height of depravity!"  
  "Since it is the fashion, and you assure me that there is nothing wrong in this connexion
      between the baronet and Mrs. Arlington—at least, that the usages of high life admit it—I will
      not advance any farther scruples," said Richard; although he had a slight suspicion, like the
      ringing of far-distant bells in the ears, that the doctrine which his companion had just
      propounded was not based upon the most tenable grounds.  
  It was now half-past six o'clock in the evening; and, one after the other, the splendid
      equipages and gay horsemen withdrew in somewhat rapid succession. The weather was nevertheless
      still exquisitely fine; indeed, it was the most enchanting portion of the entire day. The sky
      was of a soft and serene azure, upon which appeared here and there thin vapours of snowy
      white, motionless and still; for not a breath of wind stirred the leaf upon the tree. Never
      did Naples, nor Albano, nor Sorrentum, boast a more beautiful horizon; and as the sun sank
      towards the western verge, he bathed all that the eye could embrace—earth and sky, dwelling
      and grove, garden and field—in a glorious flood of golden light.  
  At seven o'clock Mr. Chichester and his new acquaintance sat down to dinner in the
      coffee-room at Long's Hotel. The turtle was unexceptionable; the iced punch faultless. Then
      came the succulent neck of venison, and the prime Madeira. The dinner passed off pleasantly
      enough; and Richard was more and more captivated with his friend. He was, however, somewhat
      astonished at the vast quantities of wine which the Honourable Mr. Chichester swallowed,
      apparently without the slightest inconvenience to himself.  
  Mr. Chichester diverted him with amusing anecdotes, lively sallies, and extraordinary
      narratives; and Richard found that his new friend had not only travelled all over Europe, but
      was actually the bosom friend of some of the most powerful of its sovereigns. These
      statements, moreover, rather appeared to slip forth in the course of conversation, than to be
      made purposely; and thus they were stamped with an additional air of truth and importance.  
   take, was now delighted with the prospect of passing an agreeable evening; and
      he readily acceded to Mr. Chichester's proposal.  
  Mrs. Arlington occupied splendidly furnished apartments on the first and second floors over
      a music-shop in Bond-street: thither, therefore, did the two gentlemen repair on foot; and in
      a short time they were introduced into the drawing-room where the baronet and his fair
      companion were seated.  
  
  CHAPTER VI. MRS. ARLINGTON.  
  THE Honourable Mr. Arthur Chichester had not exaggerated his description of the beauty of
      the Enchantress—for so she was called by the male portion of her admirers. Indeed, she was of
      exquisite loveliness. Her dark-brown hair was arranged   en bandeaux  , and parted over a
      forehead polished as marble. Her eyes were large, and of that soft dark melting blue which
      seems to form a heaven of promises and bliss to gladden the beholder.  
  She was not above the middle height of woman; but her form was modelled to the most
      exquisite and voluptuous symmetry. Her figure reminded the spectator of the body of the wasp,
      so taper was the waist, and so exuberant was the swell of the bust.  
  Her mouth was small and pouting; but, when she smiled, the parting roses of the lips
      displayed a set of teeth white as the pearls of the East.  
  Her hand would have made the envy of a queen. And yet, above all these charms, a certain
      something which could not be exactly denominated boldness nor effrontery, but which was the
      very reverse of extreme reserve, immediately struck Richard Markham.  
  He could not define the fault he had to find with this beautiful woman; and still there was
      something in her manners which seemed to proclaim that she did not possess the tranquillity
      and ease of a wife. She appeared to be constantly aiming at the display of the accomplishments
      of her mind, or the graces of her attitudes. She seemed to court admiration by every word and
      every motion; and to keep alive in the mind of the baronet the passion with which she had
      inspired him. She possessed not that confidence and contented reliance upon the idea of
      unalienable affections which characterise the wife. She seemed to be well aware that no legal
      nor religious ties connected the baronet to her; and she, therefore, kept her imagination
      perpetually upon the rack to weave new artificial bonds to cast around him. And, as if each
      action or each word of the baronet severed those bonds of silk and wreathed flowers, she
      found, Penelope-like, that at short intervals her labours were to be achieved over again.  
  This constant state of mental anxiety and excitement imparted a corresponding restlessness
      to her body; and those frequent changes of attitude, which were originally intended to develop
      the graces of her person, or allow her lover's eye to catch short glimpses of her heaving
      bosom of snow, became now a settled habit.  
  Nevertheless, she was a lovely and fascinating woman, and one for whom a young heart would
      undertake a thousand sacrifices.  
    By accident   Richard was seated next to Mrs. Arlington upon the sofa. He soon
      perceived that she was, indeed, as accomplished as the baronet had represented her to be; and
      her critical opinions upon the current literature, dramatic novelties, and new music of the
      day were delivered with judgment and good taste.  
  Richard could not help glancing from time to time in admiration at her beautiful
      countenance, animated as it now was with the excitement of the topics of discourse; and
      whenever her large blue eyes met his, a deep blush suffused his countenance, and he knew not
      what he said or did.  
  "Well, what shall we do to amuse ourselves?" said Chichester, at the expiration of about an
      hour, during which coffee had been handed round.  
  "Upon my honour," exclaimed the baronet, "I am perfectly indifferent. What say you to a game
      of whist or   écarté  ?"  
  "Just as you choose," said Chichester carelessly.  
  At this moment the door opened, and a roguish-looking little tiger—a lad of about fourteen,
      in a chocolate-coloured livery, with three rows of bright-crested buttons down his Prussian
      jacket—entered to announce another guest.  
  A short, stout, vulgar-looking man, about forty years of age, with a blue coat and brass
      buttons, buff waistcoat, and grey trousers, entered the room.  
  "Holloa, old chap, how are you?" he exclaimed in a tone of most ineffable vulgarity.
      "Harborough, how are you? Chichester, my tulip, how goes it?"  
  The baronet hastened to receive this extraordinary visitor, and, as he shook hands with him,
      whispered something in his ear. The stranger immediately turned towards Richard, to whom he
      was introduced by the name of Mr. Augustus Talbot.  
  This gentleman and the baronet then conversed together for a few moments; and Chichester,
      drawing near Markham, seized the opportunity of observing, "Talbot is an excellent fellow—a
      regular John Bull—not over polished, but enormously rich and well connected. You will see that
      he is not more cultivated in mind than in manners; but he would go to the devil to do any one
      a service; and, somehow or another, you can't help liking the fellow when once you know
      him."  
  "Any friend of yours or of the baronet's will be agreeable to me," said Richard; "and,
      provided he is a man of honour, a little roughness of manner should be readily
      overlooked."  
  "You speak like a man of the world, and as a man of honour yourself," said Mr.
      Chichester.  
  Meantime the baronet and Mr. Talbot had seated themselves, and the Honourable Mr. Chichester
      returned to his own chair.  
  The conversation then became general.  
  "I didn't know that you were in town, Talbot," said Mr. Chichester.  
  "And I forgot to mention it," observed the baronet.  
  "Or rather," said the lady, "you meditated a little surprise for your friend Mr.
      Chichester."  
  "I hope you've been well, ma'am, since I saw you last—that is the day before yesterday,"
      said Mr. Talbot. "You was complaining then of a slight cold, and I recommended a
      treacle-posset and a stocking tied round the throat."  
    
  "But I dare say you didn't follow my advice, ma'am," pursued Mr. Talbot, with the most
      imperturbable gravity. "For my part I am suffering dreadful with a bad foot. I'll tell you how
      it were, ma'am. I've got a nasty soft corn on my little toe; and so what must I do, but
      yesterday morning I takes my razor, sharpens it upon the paytent strap, and goes for to cut
      off master corn. But instead of cutting the corn, I nearly sliced my toe off; and——"  
  "By the way, Diana, has the young gentleman called yet, whom we met the other evening at the
      Opera?" said the baronet, abruptly interrupting this vulgar tirade.  
  "Do you mean the effeminate youth whom we dubbed the   Handsome Unknown  ?" said the
      Enchantress.  
  "Yes: he who was so very mysterious, but who seemed so excessively anxious to form our
      acquaintance."  
  "He promised to call some evening this week," answered Diana, "and play a game of
         écarté  . He told me that he was invincible at   écarté  ."  
  "Talking of   écarté  , let us play a game," ejaculated Mr. Chichester, who was sitting
      upon thorns lest Mr. Talbot should commence his vulgarities again.  
  "Well, I'll take a hand with pleasure," said this individual: then turning towards Diana, he
      added, "I will tell you the rest of the adventure about the soft corn another time,
      ma'am."  
  "What a nuisance this is!" whispered Chichester to the baronet. "The young fellow does stare
      so."  
  "You must give him some explanation or another," hastily replied the baronet; "or I'll tell
      Diana to say something presently that will smooth down matters."  
  The cards were produced, and Mr. Talbot and the Honourable Mr. Chichester sat down to
      play.  
  Sir Rupert backed the former, and considerable sums in gold and notes were placed upon the
      table. Presently the lady turned towards Richard, and said with a smile, "Are you fond of
         écarté  ?" "I must venture a guinea upon Mr. Chichester. Sir Rupert is betting against
      him; and I love to oppose Sir Rupert at cards. You will see how I shall tease him
      presently."  
  With these words the Enchantress rose and seated herself near Mr. Chichester. Of course
      Markham did the same; and in a very short time he was induced by the lady to follow her
      example, and back the same side which she supported.  
  Mr. Chichester, however, had a continued run of ill luck, and lost every rubber. Richard was
      thus the loser of about thirty sovereigns; but he was somewhat consoled by having so fair a
      companion in his bad fortune. He would have suffered himself to be persuaded by her to persist
      in backing Mr. Chichester, as she positively assured him that the luck must change, had not
      that gentleman himself suddenly risen, thrown down the cards, and declared that he would play
      no more.  
  "Would you, ma'am, like to take Mr. Chichester's place?" said Mr. Talbot.  
  Mr. Chichester shook his head to the baronet, and the baronet did the same to Diana, and
      Diana accordingly declined. The card-table was therefore abandoned; and Mrs. Arlington, at the
      request of Sir Rupert, seated herself at the piano. Without any affectation she sang and
      accompanied herself upon the instrument in a manner that quite ravished the heart of Richard
      Markham.  
  Suddenly the entire house echoed with the din of the front-door knocker, and almost
      simultaneously the bell was rung with violence.  
  In a few moments the young tiger announced Mr. Walter Sydney.  
  He was a youth apparently not more than nineteen or twenty, of middle height, and very slim.
      He wore a tight blue military frock coat buttoned up to the throat; ample black kerseymere
      trousers, which did not, however, conceal the fact that he was the least thing knock-kneed,
      and a hat with tolerably broad brims. His feet and hands were small to a fault. His long light
      chestnut hair flowed in luxuriant undulations over the collar of his coat, even upon his
      shoulders, and gave him a peculiarly feminine appearance. His delicate complexion, upon the
      pure red and white of which the dark dyes of no beard had yet infringed, wore a deep blush as
      he entered the room.  
  "Mr. Sydney, you are welcome," said Mrs. Arlington, in a manner calculated to reassure the
      bashful youth. "It was but an hour ago that we were talking of you, and wondering why we had
      not received the pleasure of a visit."  
  "Madam, you are too kind," replied Mr. Sydney, in a tone which sounded upon the ear like a
      silver bell—so soft and beautiful was its cadence. "I am afraid that I am intruding: I had
      hoped to find you alone—I mean yourself and Sir Rupert Harborough—and I perceive that you have
      company——"  
  He stammered—became confounded with excuses—and then glanced at his attire, as much as to
      intimate that he was in a walking dress.  
  Both the baronet and Diana hastened to welcome him in such a manner as to speedily place him
      upon comfortable terms with himself once more; and he was then introduced to Mr. Chichester,
      Mr. Talbot, and Mr. Markham.  
  The moment the name of Markham was mentioned, the youthful visitor started perceptibly, and
      then fixed his intelligent hazel eyes upon the countenance of Richard with an expression of
      the most profound interest mingled with surprise.  
  Mr. Chichester made an observation at the same moment, and Sydney immediately afterwards
      entered with ease and apparent pleasure into a conversation which turned upon the most popular
      topics of the day. Richard was astonished at the extreme modesty, propriety, and good sense
      with which that effeminate and bashful youth expressed himself; and even the baronet, who was
      in reality well informed, listened to his interesting visitor with attention and admiration.
      Still there was a species of extreme delicacy in his tastes, as evidenced by his remarks,
      which bordered at times upon a fastidiousness, if not an inexperience actually puerile or
      feminine.  
  At half-past eleven supper was served up, and the party sat down to that most welcome and
      sociable of all meals.  
   preferable to rump steaks, or that claret was more exquisite than port or
      sherry. Once, when, it would appear, Mr. Chichester kicked him under the table, he roared out
      a request that his soft corn might be remembered; and as his friends were by no means anxious
      for a second edition of that interesting narrative—especially before Mr. Walter Sydney—they
      adopted the prudent alternative of conveying their remonstrances to him by means of winks
      instead of kicks.  
  After supper Mr. Talbot insisted upon making a huge bowl of punch in his own fashion; but he
      found that Mr. Chichester would alone aid him in disposing of it. As for Mr. Walter Sydney, he
      never appeared to do more than touch the brim of the wine-glass with his lips.  
  In a short time Mr. Talbot insisted upon practising his vocal powers by singing a hunting
      song, and was deeply indignant with his friends because they would not join in the very
      impressive but somewhat common chorus of "  Fal de lal lal, fal de lal la  ." It is
      impossible to say what Mr. Talbot would have done next; but, much to the horror of the
      baronet, Mr. Chichester, and Diana—and equally to the surprise of Richard Markham and Walter
      Sydney—he suddenly lost his balance, and fell heavily upon the floor and into a sound sleep
      simultaneously.  
  "What a pity," said Mr. Chichester, shaking his head mournfully, and glancing down upon the
      prostrate gentleman, as if he were pronouncing a funeral oration over his remains; "this is
      his only fault—and, as it happens every night, it begins materially to disfigure his
      character. Otherwise, he is an excellent fellow, and immensely rich!"  
  At this moment the eyes of Richard caught those of Walter Sydney. An ill-concealed
      expression of superlative contempt and ineffable disgust was visible upon the handsome
      countenance of the latter; and the proud curl of his lip manifested his opinion of the scene
      he had just witnessed. In a few moments he rose to depart. To Diana he was only coldly polite;
      to the baronet and Chichester superbly distant and constrained; but towards Markham, as he
      took leave of him, there was a cordiality in his manner, and a sincerity in the desire which
      he expressed "that they should meet again," which formed a remarkable contrast with his
      behaviour towards the others.  
  That night slumber seemed to evade the eyes of Richard Markham. The image of Mrs. Arlington,
      and all that she had said, and the various graceful and voluptuous attitudes into which she
      had thrown herself, occupied his imagination. At times, however, his thoughts wandered to that
      charming youth—that mere boy—who seemed to court his friendship, and who was so delicate and
      so fragile to encounter the storms and vicissitudes of that world in whose dizzy vortex he was
      already found. Nor less did Richard ever and anon experience a sentiment of profound surprise
      that the elegant and wealthy Sir Rupert Harborough, the accomplished and lovely Diana, and the
      fastidious Mr. Arthur Chichester, should tolerate the society of such an unmitigated vulgarian
      as Mr. Talbot.  
  
  CHAPTER VII. THE BOUDOIR.  
  IT was the morning after the events related in the last chapter.  
  The scene changes to a beautiful little villa in the environs of Upper Clapton.  
  This charming retreat, which consisted of a main building two storeys high, and wings each
      containing only one apartment, was constructed of yellow bricks that had retained their
      primitive colour, the dwelling being too far from the metropolis to be affected by its smoky
      exhalations.  
  The villa stood in the midst of a small garden, beautifully laid out in the French style of
      Louis XV.; and around it—interrupted only by the avenue leading to the front door of the
      dwelling—was a grove of evergreens. This grove formed a complete circle, and bounded the
      garden; and the entire enclosure was protected by a regular paling, painted white.  
  This miniature domain, consisting of about four acres, was one of the most beautiful spots
      in the neighbourhood of London; and behind it—far as the eye could reach—stretched the green
      fields, smiling and cultivated like those of Tuscany.  
  In front of the villa was a small grass plot, in the centre of which was a basin of clear
      and pellucid water, upon whose surface floated two noble swans, and other aquatic birds of a
      curious species.  
  Every now and then the silence of the morning was broken by the bay of several
      sporting-dogs, which occupied, in the rear of the building, kennels more cleanly and more
      carefully attended upon than the dwellings of many millions of Christians.  
  And yet the owner of that villa wanted not charity: witness the poor woman and two children
      who have just emerged from the servants' offices laden with cold provisions, and with a
      well-filled bundle of other necessaries.  
  At the door of a stable a groom was seen dismounting from the back of a thorough-bred
      chestnut mare, which had just returned from an airing, and upon which he cast a glance of
      mingled pride and affection.  
  The windows of the villa were embellished with flowers in pots and vases of curious
      workmanship; and outside the casements of the chambers upon the first floor were suspended
      cages containing beautiful singing birds.  
  To the interior of one of those rooms must we direct the attention of the reader. It was an
      elegant   boudoir  : and yet it could scarcely justify the name; for by a
         boudoir   we understand something completely feminine, whereas this contained articles
      of male and female use and attire strangely commingled—pell-mell—together.  
   foils, single-sticks, dandy-canes, and hunting-whips, were huddled together in
      one corner of that bureau. And yet all the confusion of these various and discrepant objects
      was so regular in appearance—if the phrase can be understood—that it seemed as if some cunning
      hand had purposely arranged them all so as to strike the eye in a manner calculated to
      encourage the impression that this elegant boudoir was inhabited by a man of strange feminine
      tastes, or a woman of extraordinary masculine ones.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  There was no pompous nor gorgeous display of wealth in this boudoir: its interior, like that
      of the whole villa throughout, denoted competence and ease—elegance and taste, but no useless
      luxury nor profuse expenditure.  
  The window of the boudoir was half open. A bowl of chrystal water, containing gold and
      silver fish, stood upon a table in the recess of the casement. The chirrup of the birds echoed
      through the room, which was perfumed with the odour of sweet flowers.  
  By the wall facing the window stood a French bed, on the head and foot of which fell pink
      satin curtains, flowing from a gilt-headed arrow fixed near the ceiling.  
  It was now nine o'clock, and the sun shed a flood of golden light through the half-open
      casement upon that couch which was so voluptuous and so downy.  
  A female of great beauty, and apparently about five-and-twenty years of age, was reading in
      that bed. Her head reposed upon her hand, and her elbow upon the pillow: and that hand was
      buried in a mass of luxuriant light chestnut hair, which flowed down upon her back, her
      shoulders, and her bosom; but not so as altogether to conceal the polished ivory whiteness of
      the plump fair flesh.  
  The admirable slope of the shoulders, the swan-like neck, and the exquisite symmetry of the
      bust, were descried even amidst those masses of luxuriant and shining hair.  
   nose perfectly straight, small but pouting lips, brilliant teeth, and a well
      rounded chin, were additional charms to augment the attractions of that delightful
      picture.  
  The whole scene was one of soft voluptuousness—the birds, the flowers, the vase of gold and
      silver fish, the tasteful arrangements of the boudoir, the French bed, and the beautiful
      creature who reclined in that couch, her head supported upon the well-turned and polished arm,
      the dazzling whiteness of which no envious sleeve concealed!  
  From time to time the eyes of that sweet creature were raised from the book, and thrown
      around the room in a manner that denoted, if not mental anxiety, at least a state of mind not
      completely at ease. Now and then, too, a cloud passed over that brow which seemed the very
      throne of innocence and candour; and a sigh agitated the breast which the sunbeams covered as
      it were with kisses.  
  Presently the door was opened softly, and an elderly female, well but simply dressed, and of
      placid and reserved aspect, entered the room.  
  "Mr. Stephens is below," said the servant; "I told him you had not risen yet, and he says he
      will await your convenience."  
  "I know not how it is," exclaimed the lady impatiently, "but I never felt less disposed for
      the visit of him whom I regard as my benefactor. Ah! Louisa," she added, a cloud overspreading
      her entire countenance, "I feel as if one of those dreadful attacks of despondency—one of
      those fearful fits of alarm and foreboding—of presentiment of evil, were coming on; and——"  
  "Pray calm yourself," interrupted the servant, speaking in a kind and imploring tone.
      "Remember that the very walls have ears; that a word spoken in too high a tone may betray your
      secret; and heaven alone knows what would be the result of such an appalling discovery!"  
  "Yes, it is that horrible mystery," ejaculated the lady, "which fills me with the most acute
      apprehensions. Compelled to sustain a constant cheat—to feel that I am a living, a breathing,
      a moving falsehood, a walking lie;—forced to crush all the natural amenities—ay, and even the
      amiable weaknesses of my sex; governed by an imperious necessity against which it is now
      impossible to rebel,—how can I do otherwise than experience moments of unutterable
      anguish!"  
  "You must still have patience—patience only for a few months—three short months,—and the
      result of all this suspense—the end of all this anxiety, will be no doubt as advantageous—as
      immensely important and beneficial—as we are led to believe."  
  "True: we are bound to believe a man who seems so serious in all his actions with regard to
      me," said the lady, after a short pause, during which she seemed to be wrapped up in a deep
      reverie. "But why does he keep me in the dark with regard to the true nature of that grand
      result? Why does he not trust me, who have placed such unbounded, such implicit confidence in
      him?"  
  "He is afraid lest an unguarded moment on your part should betray what he assures us to be
      of the most vital—the last importance," answered the domestic, in a kindly remonstrative tone.
      "And really, my dearest girl," she added, affectionately,—"pardon me for calling you so——"  
  "Ah! Louisa, you are my dearest friend!" said the lady energetically. "You, and you alone,
      have supported my courage during the four years and a half that this horrible deceit has
      already lasted; your kindness——"  
  "I have only done my duty, and acted as my heart dictated," mildly replied the female
      dependant. "But as I was observing, you are so very imprudent, as it is; and can you expect
      that Mr. Stephens will reveal to you the minute details of a scheme, which——"  
  "Imprudent!" hastily exclaimed the lady: "how am I imprudent? Do I not follow all
         his   directions—all   your   advice? Have I not even learned to talk to the very
      groom in his own language about the horses and the dogs? and do I not scamper across the
      country, upon my chestnut mare, with him following upon the bay horse at my heels, as if we
      were both mad? And then you say that I am imprudent, when I have done all I can to sustain the
      character which I have assumed? And with the exception of these rides, how seldom do I go
      abroad? Half-a-dozen names include all my acquaintances: and no one—no one ever comes here!
      This is, indeed, a hermit's dwelling! How can you say that I am imprudent?"  
  "Without going out of this very room," began Louisa, with a smile, "I could——"  
  "Ah! the eternal remonstrances against these habiliments of my sex!" exclaimed the lady,
      drawing back the satin curtain at the head of the bed with her snow-white arm, and glancing
      towards the bureau which contained the female dresses: "ever those remonstrances! Alas! I
      should die—I could not support this appalling deceit—were I not to gratify my woman's feelings
      from time to time? Do you think that I can altogether rebel against nature, and not experience
      the effects? And, in occasionally soothing my mind with the occupations natural to my sex,
      have I ever been imprudent? When I have dressed my hair as it should ever be dressed—when I
      have put on one of those silk or muslin robes, merely to see myself reflected in my
      mirror—and, oh! what a pardonable vanity under such circumstances!—have I ever been imprudent
      enough to set foot outside this retreat—this boudoir, to which you alone are ever admitted? Do
      I ever dress with the blinds of the windows raised? No: I have done all that human being can
      do to support my spirits during this sad trial, and sustain the character I have assumed. But
      if it be desired that I should altogether forget my sex—and cling to the garb of a man; if I
      may never—not even for an hour in the evening—follow my fantasy, and relieve my mind by
      resuming the garb which is natural to me—within these four walls—unseen by a soul save
      you——"  
  "Yes, yes, you shall have your way," interrupted Louisa soothingly. "But Mr. Stephens waits:
      will you not rise and see him?"  
  "It is my duty," said the lady resignedly. "He has surrounded me with every comfort and
      every luxury which appetite can desire or money procure; and, however he may ultimately
      benefit by this proceeding, in the meantime my gratitude is due to him."  
  "The delicacy of his conduct towards you equals his liberality," observed Louisa
      pointedly.  
   portion of the contract, and I will as religiously observe mine."  
  "You speak wisely and consistently," said Louisa; "and the result of your honourable conduct
      towards Mr. Stephens will no doubt be a recompense which will establish your fortunes for
      life."  
  "That hope sustains me. Oh! how happy, thrice happy shall I be, when, the period of my
      emancipation being arrived, I may escape to some distant part of my own native country, or to
      some foreign clime, resume the garb belonging to my sex, and live in a way consistent with
      nature, and suitable to my taste. It is in anticipation of those golden moments that I from
      time to time retire into the impenetrable mystery of this boudoir, and dress myself in the
      garb which I love, and which is my own. And when that elysian age shall come, oh! how shall I
      divert my mind with a retrospection upon these long weary weeks and months, during which I
      have been compelled to study habits opposed to my taste and feeling—to affect a love of horses
      and dogs, that a manly predilection may avert attention from a feminine countenance,—and to
      measure each word that falls from my lips, to study each attitude which my form assumes, and
      to relinquish pursuits and occupations which my mind adores."  
  The lady threw herself back upon her pillow and gave way to a delicious reverie. Louisa did
      not attempt to disturb her for some minutes. At length she murmured something about "keeping
      Mr. Stephens waiting rather longer than usual;" and her mistress, acting by a sudden impulse,
      rose from her couch.  
  Then followed the mysterious toilet.  
  Stays, curiously contrived, gave to that exquisitely modelled form as much as possible the
      appearance of the figure of a man. The swell of the bosom, slightly compressed, was rendered
      scarcely apparent by padding skilfully placed, so as to fill up and flatten the undulating
      bust. The position of the waist was lowered; and all this was effected without causing the
      subject of so strange a transformation any pain or uneasiness.  
  The semi-military blue frock coat, buttoned up to the throat, completed the disguise; and as
      this species of garment is invariably somewhat prominent about the chest, the very fashion of
      its make materially aided an effectual concealment, by averting surprise at the gentle
      protuberance of the breast, in the present instance.  
  Louisa arranged the luxuriant and flowing hair with particular attention, bestowing as much
      as possible a masculine appearance upon that which would have been a covering worthy of a
      queen.  
  The toilet being thus completed, this strange being to whom we have introduced our readers,
      descended to a parlour on the ground floor.  
  When Louisa left the boudoir she carefully locked the door and consigned the key to her
      pocket.  
  
  CHAPTER VIII. THE CONVERSATION.  
  THE parlour which that lovely and mysterious creature—who now seemed a youth of about
      twenty—entered upon the ground floor, was furnished with taste and elegance. Everything was
      light, airy, and graceful. The windows were crowded with flowers that imparted a delicious
      perfume to the atmosphere, and afforded a picture upon which the eye rested with pleasure.  
  A recess was fitted up with book-shelves, which were supplied with the productions of the
      best poets and novelists of England and France.  
  Around the walls were suspended several paintings—chiefly consisting of sporting subjects.
      Over the mantel, however, were two miniatures, executed in water-colours in the first style of
      the art, and representing the one a lovely youth of sixteen, the other a beautiful girl of
      twenty.  
  And never was resemblance more striking. The same soft and intelligent hazel eyes—the same
      light hair, luxuriant, silky, and shining—the some straight nose—the same vermilion lips, and
      well-turned chin. At a glance it was easy to perceive that they were brother and sister; and
      as the countenance of the former was remarkably feminine and delicate, the likeness between
      them was the more striking.  
  Beneath the miniature of the brother, in small gilt letters upon the enamelled frame, was
      the word   Walter  : under the portrait of the sister was the name of   Eliza  .  
  Attired as she now was, the mysterious being whom we have introduced to our readers,
      perfectly resembled the portrait of   Walter  : attired as she ought to have been,
      consistently with her sex, she would have been the living original of the portrait of
         Eliza  .  
  Upon a sofa in the parlour, some of the leading features of which we have just described, a
      man, dressed with great neatness, but no ostentatious display, was lounging.  
  He was in reality not more than three or four and thirty years of age; although a
      seriousness of countenance—either admirably studied, or else occasioned by habits of business
      and mental combination—made him appear ten years older. He was handsome, well-formed, and
      excessively courteous and fascinating in his manners: but, when he was alone, or not engaged
      in conversation, he seemed plunged in deep thought, as if his brain were working upon numerous
      plans and schemes of mighty and vital import.  
  The moment the heroine of the boudoir entered the parlour, Mr. Stephens—for he was the
      individual whom we have just described—rose and accosted her in a manner expressive of
      kindness, respect, and patronage.  
  "My dear Walter," he exclaimed, "it is really an age since I have seen you. Six weeks have
      elapsed, and I have not been near you. But you received my letter, stating that I was
      compelled to proceed to Paris upon most particular business?"  
  "Yes, my dear sir," answered the lady,—or in order that some name may in future characterise
      her, we will call her Walter, or Mr. Walter Sydney, for that was indeed the appellation by
      which she was known,—"yes, my dear sir, I received your letter, and the handsome presents and
      remittances accompanying it. For each and all I return you my sincere thanks: but really, with
      regard to money, you are far too lavish towards me. Remember that I scarcely have any
      opportunity of being extravagant," added Walter, with a smile; "for I scarcely ever stir
      abroad, save to take my daily rides; and you know that I never receive company, that my
      acquaintances are limited, so limited——"  
   Stephens. "Three short months more and my object will be achieved. We shall then
      be both of us above the reach of Fortune's caprices and vicissitudes. Oh! how glorious—how
      grand will be this achievement! how well worth all the sacrifices that I have required you to
      make."  
  "Ah! my dear sir," observed Walter, somewhat reproachfully, "you must remember that you are
      now talking enigmas to me; that I am at present only a blind instrument in your hands—a mere
      machine—an automaton——"  
  "Do not press me upon this head, Walter," interrupted Mr. Stephens, hastily. "You must not
      as yet be led to comprehend the magnitude of my views: you must have patience. Surely I have
      given you ample proofs of my good feeling and my honourable views towards yourself. Only
      conceive what would be your present position without me; not a relation, not a friend in the
      wide world to aid or protect you! I do not say this to vaunt my own conduct: I am merely
      advancing arguments to prove how confident I am in the success of my plans, and how sincere I
      am in my friendship towards you. For, remember, Walter—I always forget your sex: I only look
      upon you as a mere boy—a nephew, or a son, whom I love. Such is my feeling: I am more than a
      friend; for, I repeat, I feel a paternal attachment towards you!"  
  "And I entertain feelings of deep—yes, of the deepest gratitude towards you," said Walter.
      "But the motive of my constant intercession to be admitted more into your confidence, is to be
      convinced—by my own knowledge—that my present conduct tends to facilitate no dishonest, no
      dangerous views. Oh! you will pardon me when I say this; for there are times when I am a prey
      to the most horrible alarms—when fears of an indescribable nature haunt me for hours
      together—and when I seem to be walking blindfold upon the brink of an abyss!"  
  "Walter, I am surprised that you should thus give way to suspicions most injurious to my
      honour," said Mr. Stephens, whose countenance remained perfectly collected and unchanged; "for
      the hundredth time do I assure you that you have nothing to fear."  
  "Then wherefore this disguise? why this constant cheat relative to my sex? why this
      permanent deception?" demanded Walter, in an impassioned tone.  
  "Cannot the most rigorous honesty be connected with the most profound prudence—the most
      delicate caution?" said Mr. Stephens, adopting an attitude and manner of persuasion. "Do not
      judge of motives by their mere superficial aspect: strange devices—but not the less honourable
      for being singular—are frequently required in the world to defeat designs of infamy and
      baseness."  
  "Pardon my scepticism," said Walter, apparently convinced by this reasoning; "I was wrong,
      very wrong to suspect you. I will not again urge my anxiety to penetrate your secrets. I feel
      persuaded that you conceal the means by which our mutual prosperity is to be effected, simply
      for my good."  
  "Now you speak rationally, my dear, my faithful and confiding Walter," exclaimed Mr.
      Stephens. "It was just in this vein that I was anxious to find you; for I have an important
      communication to make this morning."  
  "Speak: I am ready to follow your instructions or advice."  
  "I must inform you, Walter, that in order effectually to work out my plans—in order that
      there should not exist the slightest chance of failure—a third person is required. It will be
      necessary that he should be conversant with our secret: he must know all; and, of course, he
      must be taken care of hereafter. To be brief, I have already fallen in with the very
      individual who will suit me; and I have acquainted him with the entire matter. You will not
      object to receive him occasionally as a guest?"  
  "My dear sir, how can I object? Is not this your house? and am not I in your hands? You know
      that you can command me in all respects."  
  "I thought that you would meet my views with this readiness and good will," said Mr.
      Stephens. "To tell you the real truth, then—I have taken the liberty of inviting him to dine
      with us here this day."  
  "To-day!"  
  "Yes. Are you annoyed?"  
  "Oh! not at all: only, the preparations——"  
  "Do not alarm yourself. While you were occupied with your toilet, I gave the necessary
      instructions to the cook. The old woman is almost blind and deaf, still she knows full well
      how to serve up a tempting repast; and as I am believed by your three servants to be your
      guardian, my interference in this respect will not have appeared strange."  
  "How could they think otherwise?" ejaculated Walter. "Did not you provide those dependants
      who surround me? Do they not look upon you as their master as well as myself? Are they not
      aware that the villa is your own property? And have they not been led to believe—with the
      exception of Louisa, who alone of the three knows the secret—that the state of my health
      compelled you to place me here for the benefit of a purer air than that which your residence
      in the city affords?"  
  "Well, since my arrangements meet with your satisfaction," said Mr. Stephens, smiling, "I am
      satisfied. But I should tell you that I invited my friend hither not only to dine, but also to
      pass the day, that we might have an opportunity of conversing together at our leisure.
      Indeed," added Mr. Stephens, looking at his watch, "I expect him here every moment."  
  Scarcely were the words uttered when a loud knock at the front door echoed through the
      house.  
  In a few minutes Louisa appeared, and introduced "Mr. Montague."  
  
  CHAPTER IX. A CITY MAN.—SMITHFIELD SCENES.  
  GEORGE Montague was a tall, good-looking young man of about three or four-and-twenty. His
      hair and eyes were black, his complexion rather dark, and his features perfectly regular.  
   by no means calculated to render him a favourite with all classes of persons. He
      was, however, well-informed upon most topics; ambitious of creating a sensation in the world,
      no matter by what means; resolute in his pursuit after wealth, and careless whether the paths
      leading to the objects which he sought were tortuous or straightforward. He was addicted to
      pleasure, but never permitted it to interfere with his business or mar his schemes.
         Love   with him was merely the blandishment of beauty; and   friendship   was
      simply that bond which connected him with those individuals who were necessary to him. He was
      utterly and completely selfish; but he was somehow or another possessed of sufficient tact to
      conceal most of his faults—of the existence of which he was well aware. The consequence was
      that he was usually welcomed as an agreeable companion; some even went so far as to assert
      that he was a "devilish good fellow;" and all admitted that he was a thorough man of the
      world. He must have commenced his initiation early, thus to have acquired such a character ere
      he had completed his four-and-twentieth year!  
  London abounds with such precocious specimens of thorough heartlessness and
      worldly-mindedness. The universities and great public schools let loose upon society every
      half-year a cloud of young men, who think only how soon they can spend their own property in
      order to prey upon that of others. These are your "young men   about   town:" as they
      grow older they become "men   upon   the town." In their former capacity they graduate in
      all the degrees of vice, dissipation, extravagance, and debauchery; and in the latter they
      become the tutors of the novices who are entering in their turn upon the road to ruin. The
      transition from the young man about town to the man upon the town is as natural as that of a
      chrysalis to a butterfly. These men   upon   the town constitute as pestilential a
      section of male society as the women   of   the town do of the female portion of the
      community. They are alike the reptiles produced by the great moral dung-heap.  
  We cannot, however, exactly class Mr. George Montague with the men upon the town in the true
      meaning of the phrase, inasmuch as he devoted his attention to commercial speculations of all
      kinds and under all shapes, and his sphere was chiefly the City; whereas men upon the town
      seldom entertain an idea half "so vulgar" as mercantile pursuits, and never visit the domains
      of the Lord Mayor save when they want to get a bill discounted, or to obtain cash for a check
      of too large an amount to be entrusted to any of their high-born and aristocratic
      companions.  
  Mr. George Montague was, therefore, one of that multitudinous class called "City men," who
      possess no regular offices, but have their letters addressed to the Auction Mart or
      Garraway's, and who make their appointments at such places as "the front of the Bank," "the
      Custom-house Wharf," and "under the clock at the Docks."  
  City men are very extraordinary characters. They all know "a certain speculation that would
      make a sure fortune, if one had but the capital to work upon;" they never fail to observe,
      while making this assertion, that they   could   apply to a friend if they chose, but
      that they do not choose to lay themselves under the obligation; and they invariably affirm
      that nothing is more easy than to make a fortune in the City, although the greater portion of
      them remain without that happy consummation until the day of their deaths. Now and then,
      however, one of these City men   does   succeed in "making a hit" by some means or other;
      and then his old friends, the very men who are constantly enunciating the opinion relative to
      the facility with which fortunes are obtained in the City, look knowing, wink at each other,
      and declare "that it never could have been done unless he'd had somebody with plenty of money
      to back him."  
  Now Mr. Montague was one of those who adopted a better system of logic than the vulgar
      reasoning. He knew that there was but little merit in producing bread from flour, for
      instance; but he perceived that there was immense credit due to those who could produce their
      bread without any flour at all. Upon this principle he acted, and his plan was not unattended
      with success. He scorned the idea "that money was necessary to beget money;" he began his
      "City career," as he sometimes observed, without a farthing; and he was seldom without gold in
      his pocket.  
  No one knew where he lived. He was sometimes seen getting into a Hackney omnibus at the
      Flower Pot, a Camberwell one at the Cross Keys; or running furiously after a Hammersmith one
      along Cheapside; but as these directions were very opposite, it was difficult to deduce from
      them any idea of his domiciliary whereabouts.  
  He was young to be a City man; the class does not often include members under thirty; but of
      course there are exceptions to all rules; and Mr. George Montague was one.  
  He was then a City man: but if the reader be anxious to know what sort of   business  
      he transacted to obtain his living; whether he dabbled in the funds, sold wines upon
      commission, effected loans and discounts, speculated in shares, got up joint-stock companies,
      shipped goods to the colonies, purchased land in Australia at eighteen-pence an acre and sold
      it again at one-and-nine, conducted compromises for insolvent tradesmen, made out the accounts
      of bankrupts, arbitrated between partners who disagreed, or bought in things in a friendly way
      at public sales; whether he followed any of these pursuits, or meddled a little with them all,
      we can no more satisfy our readers than if we attempted the biography of the Man in the
      Moon.—all we can say is, that he was invariably in the City from eleven to four; that he
      usually had "an excellent thing in hand just at that moment;" and, in a word, that he belonged
      to the class denominated   City Men  !  
  We have taken some pains to describe this gentleman; for reasons which will appear
      hereafter.  
  Having been duly introduced to Walter Sydney by Mr. Stephens, and after a few observations
      of a general nature, Mr. Montague glided almost imperceptibly into topics upon which he
      conversed with ease and fluency.  
  Presently a pause ensued; and Mr. Stephens enquired "if there were anything new in the
      City?"  
   afternoon, just before the close, that Alderman Dumkins is all wrong."  
  "Indeed," said Stephens; "I thought he was wealthy."  
  "Oh! no;   I   knew the contrary eighteen months ago! It appears he has been starting a
      joint-stock company to work the Ercalat tin-mines in Cornwall——"  
  "And I suppose the mines do not really exist?"  
  "Oh! yes; they do—upon his maps! However, he has been exhibiting certain specimens of tin,
      which he has passed off as Ercalat produce; and it is now pretty generally known that the
      article was supplied him by a house in Aldgate."  
  "Then he will be compelled to resign his gown?"  
  "Not he! On the contrary, he stands next in rotation for the honours of the civic chair; and
      he intends to go boldly forward as if nothing had happened. You must remember that the
      aldermen of the City of London have degenerated considerably in respectability during late
      years; and that none of the really influential and wealthy men in the City will have anything
      to do with the corporation affairs. You do not see any great banker nor merchant wearing the
      aldermanic gown. The only alderman who really possessed what may be called a large fortune,
      and whose pecuniary position was above all doubt, resigned his gown the other day in disgust
      at the treatment which he received from his brother authorities, in consequence of his
      connexion with the   Weekly Courier  —the only newspaper that boldly, fearlessly, and
      effectually advocates the people's cause."  
  "And Dumkins will not resign, you think?"  
  "Oh! decidedly not. But for my part," added Montague, "I feel convinced that the sooner some
      change is made in the City administration the better. Only conceive the immense sums which the
      corporation receives from various sources, and the uses to which they are applied. Look at the
      beastly guzzling at Guildhall, while there are in the very heart of the City Augean stables of
      filth, crime, and debauchery to be cleansed—witness Petticoat-lane, Smithfield——"  
  A species of groan or stifled exclamation of horror issued from the lips of Walter as
      Montague uttered these words: her countenance grew deadly pale, and her entire frame appeared
      to writhe under a most painful reminiscence or emotion.  
  "Compose yourself, compose yourself," said Stephens, hastily. "Shall I ring for a glass of
      water, or wine, or anything——"  
  "No, it is past," interrupted Walter Sydney; "but I never think of that horrible—that
      appalling adventure without feeling my blood curdle in my veins. The mere mention of the word
      Smithfield——"  
  "Could I have been indiscreet enough to give utterance to anything calculated to annoy?"
      said Montague, who was surprised at this scene.  
  "You were not aware of the reminiscence you awoke in my mind by your remark," answered
      Walter, smiling; "but were you acquainted with the particulars of that fearful night, you
      would readily excuse my weakness."  
  "You have excited Mr. Montague's curiosity," observed Stephens, "and you have now nothing to
      do but to gratify it."  
  "It is an adventure of a most romantic kind—an adventure which you will scarcely believe—and
      yet one that will make your hair stand on end."  
  "I am now most anxious to learn the details of this mysterious occurrence," said Montague,
      scarcely knowing whether these remarks were made in jest or earnest.  
  Walter Sydney appeared to reflect for a few moments; and then commenced the narrative in the
      following manner:—  
  "It is now a little more than four years ago—very shortly after I first arrived at this
      house—that I rode into town, attended by the same groom who is in my service now. I knew
      little or nothing of the City, and felt my curiosity awakened to view the emporium of the
      world's commerce. I accordingly determined to indulge in a ramble by myself amidst the streets
      and thoroughfares of a place of which such marvellous accounts reach those who pass their
      youth in the country. I left the groom with the horses at a livery-stable in
      Bishopsgate-street, with a promise to return in the course of two or three hours. I then roved
      about to my heart's content, and never gave the lapse of time a thought. Evening came, and the
      weather grew threatening. Then commenced my perplexities. I had forgotten the address of the
      stables where the groom awaited my return; and I discovered the pleasing fact that I had lost
      my way just at the moment when an awful storm seemed ready to break over the metropolis. When
      I solicited information concerning the right path which I should pursue, I was insulted by the
      low churls to whom I applied. To be brief, I was overtaken by darkness and by the storm, in a
      place which I have since ascertained to be Smithfield market. I could not have conceived that
      so filthy and horrible a nuisance could have been allowed to exist in the midst of a city of
      so much wealth. But, oh! the revolting streets which branch off from that Smithfield. It
      seemed to me that I was wandering amongst all the haunts of crime and appalling penury of
      which I had read in romances, but which I never could have believed to exist in the very heart
      of the metropolis of the world. Civilisation appeared to me to have chosen particular places
      which it condescended to visit, and to have passed others by without even leaving a foot-print
      to denote its presence."  
  "But this horrible adventure?" said Montague.  
  "Oh! forgive my digression. Surrounded by darkness, exposed to the rage of the storm, and
      actually sinking with fatigue, I took refuge in an old house, which I am sure I could never
      find again; but which was situated nearly at the end, and on the right-hand side of the way,
      of one of those vile narrow streets branching off from Smithfield. That house was the den of
      wild beasts in human shape! I was compelled to hear a conversation of a most appalling nature
      between two ruffians, who made that place the depôt for their plunder. They planned, amongst
      other atrocious topics, the robbery of a country-seat, somewhere to the north of Islington,
      and inhabited by a family of the name of Markham."  
  "Indeed! What—how strange!" ejaculated Montague: then immediately afterwards, he added, "How
      singular that you should have overheard so vile a scheme!"  
   that I was going raving mad. I made a desperate attempt to escape, and was
      perceived. What then immediately followed I know not, for I became insensible: in a word, Mr.
      Montague, I fainted!"  
  A deep blush suffused her countenance, as she made this avowal—for it seemed to have a
      direct relation to her sex; and she was well aware that the secret connected therewith had
      been revealed by her benefactor to George Montague. On his part, he gazed upon her with
      mingled interest and admiration.  
  "I awoke to encounter a scene of horror," she continued, after a short pause, "which you
      must fancy; but the full extent of which I cannot depict. I can only   feel   it even
      now. Those wretches were conveying me to a room upon the ground-floor—a room to which the
      cells of the Bastille or the Inquisition could have produced no equal. It had a trap-door
      communicating with the Fleet Ditch! I begged for mercy—I promised wealth—for I knew that my
      kind benefactor," she added, glancing towards Mr. Stephens, "would have enabled me to fulfil
      my pledge to them; but all was in vain. The murderers hurled me down the dark and pestiferous
      hole!"  
  "Merciful heavens!" ejaculated Montague.  
  "It would appear that the house in question," proceeded Walter, "stood upon the side of, and
      not over the Ditch. There can be, however, no doubt that the trap-door was contrived for the
      horrible purpose of disposing of those victims who fell into the merciless hands of the
      occupants of the dwelling; for when I had fallen some distance, instead of being immersed in
      black and filthy mud, I was caught upon a sloping plank which shelved towards a large aperture
      in the wall of the Ditch. I instinctively clung to this plank, and lay stretched upon it for
      some moments until I had partially recovered my presence of mind. The circumstance of having
      thus escaped a dreadful death gave me an amount of courage at which I myself was astonished.
      At length I began to reason whether it would be better to remain there until morning, and then
      endeavour to reach the trap-door above my head, or to devise some means of immediate escape. I
      decided upon the latter proceeding; for I reflected that the morning would not afford light to
      that subterranean hole to enable me to act with certainty; and I, moreover, dreaded the
      extreme vengeance of those ruffians who had already given me a sample of their brutality,
      should I happen to encounter them on emerging from the trap-door. Lastly, I considered that it
      was also probable that I might not succeed in raising the trap-door at all."  
  "What a fearful situation!" observed Montague.  
  "Horrible even to think of," added Stephens, who listened with the deepest attention to this
      narrative, although he had heard it related on former occasions.  
  "With my hands and legs I groped about," continued Walter, "and I speedily ascertained my
      exact position with regard to the locality. My feet were close to a large square aperture in
      the perpendicular wall overhanging the Ditch; and the floor of the cellar was only a couple of
      feet below the aperture. I accordingly got cautiously off the board, and stood upon the damp
      ground. After the lapse of several minutes, during which I nerved myself to adopt the idea
      that had struck me, I passed my head through the aperture, and looked out over the Ditch. The
      stream appeared rapid, to judge by its gurgling sound; and the stench that exhaled from it was
      pestiferous in the extreme. Turning my head to the left I saw hundreds of lights twinkling in
      the small narrow windows of two lines of houses that overhung the Ditch. The storm had now
      completely passed away—the rain had ceased—and the night was clear and beautiful. In a few
      minutes I was perfectly acquainted with the entire geography of the place. The means of escape
      were within my reach. About three feet above the aperture through which I was now looking, a
      plank crossed the Ditch; and on the opposite side—for the Ditch in that part was not above two
      yards wide from wall to wall—was a narrow ledge running along the side of the house facing the
      one in which I was, and evidently communicating with some lane or street close by. I can
      scarcely tell you how I contrived to creep through the aperture and reach the plank overhead.
      Nevertheless, I attempted the dangerous feat, and I accomplished it. I crossed the plank, and
      reached the ledge of which I have spoken: it terminated in the very street where stood the
      terrible den from which I had just so miraculously escaped. Indeed, I emerged upon that street
      only at a distance of a few yards from the door of that detestable place. To hurry away in a
      contrary direction was my first and most natural impulse; but I had not proceeded far when the
      door of a house was suddenly thrown violently open, and out poured a crowd of men and women,
      among whom I was, as it were, immediately hemmed in."  
  "What! another adventure?" exclaimed Montague.  
  "One calculated to inspire feelings of deep disgust, if not of alarm," answered Walter. "It
      appeared that two women had been quarreling and had turned out to fight. They fell upon each
      other like wild cats, or as you would fancy that tigers would fight. A clear and lovely moon
      lighted this revolting scene. A circle was formed round the termagants, and for ten minutes
      did they lacerate themselves with fists and nails in a fearful manner. Their clothes were torn
      into ribands—their countenances were horribly disfigured with scratches—the blood poured from
      their noses—and their hair, hanging all dishevelled over their naked shoulders, gave them a
      wild, ferocious, and savage appearance, such as I never could have expected to encounter in
      the metropolis of the civilised world."  
  "And in the very heart of the City," added Mr. Montague.  
  "Suddenly a cry of '  The Bluebottles!   strangely with their boisterous mirth. Some of these unfortunate creatures,
      nevertheless, retained traces of original beauty prematurely faded. The men were hatless and
      shoeless; indeed the entire assembly consisted of males and females evidently of the most
      wretched description. Scarcely had I time to cast a glance around me when I was questioned as
      to how I came there? what I wanted? and whether I meant to stand anything? 'I will tell you
      what it is,' said one to his companions, 'he is a swell who is come to have a look at these
      kind of cribs, and he must pay his footing.' I immediately comprehended the nature of the
      impression which my presence had created, and presented the individual who had spoken with a
      couple of half-crowns. The sight of the money produced an immense feeling in my favour. Heaven
      only knows how many gallons of beer were fetched from a neighbouring public-house; and when
      the inmates of that lazar-house—for I can scarcely call it anything else—had all partaken of
      the liquor, I was overwhelmed with offers of service. One declared, that if I merely came to
      see the neighbourhood he would take me round to every place in the street; another assured me,
      that if I had committed a forgery or any other 'genteel crime,' he would either help me to lie
      secure until the matter had blown over, or to escape from the country; and so on. I suffered
      the wretches to retain the impression that curiosity had alone led me thither; and as soon as
      I had made this announcement the mistress of the house was summoned to do the honours of the
      establishment. A blear-eyed old crone made her appearance, and insisted upon showing me over
      the house. 'These rooms,' said she, meaning the two upon the ground floor, 'are for those who
      can afford to pay threepence for their bed and who have supper to cook.' We then ascended to
      the first floor. 'These are the four-penny beds,' said the old woman, pointing with pride and
      satisfaction to some thirty or forty couches, a shade cleaner, and the least thing further off
      from each other than those down stairs. The rooms on the first floor were also filled with
      lodgers; and another demand was made upon my purse. On the third floor and in the attics were
      the most horrible scenes of wretchedness which I had yet beheld. Those dens were filled with
      straw beds, separated from each other only by pieces of plank about eight or ten inches in
      height. Men, women, and children were all crowded together—sleeping pell-mell. Oh! it was a
      horrible, horrible spectacle. To be brief, I escaped from that moral plague-house; and in a
      few moments was traversing Smithfield once more. Even the tainted air of that filthy enclosure
      was refreshing after the foul atmosphere from which I had just emerged."  
  Louisa entered the room at this moment to announce that luncheon was prepared in another
      apartment.  
  "And you never took any steps to root out that nest of villains in the Old House whence you
      escaped alive so miraculously?" said Montague sipping a glass of exquisite wine after his
      luncheon.  
  "I wrote two anonymous letters the very next morning," answered Walter: "one to Mr. Markham,
      warning him of the contemplated burglar at his house; and another to the Lord Mayor of London.
      It did not altogether suit Mr. Stephens's plans——"  
  "No—not to make a fuss about an affair which would have been sure to bring your name into
      notoriety," added this gentleman hastily.  
  "That adventure has no doubt given you a distaste for late rambles," said Montague.  
  "In the City—decidedly so," was the reply. "I seldom go into London, early or late—I have so
      few inducements—so few acquaintances! By the way, a few evenings ago I treated myself to a
      visit to the Opera, and there accident threw me into conversation with a gentleman and lady
      who sat in the same box as myself. The result was an invitation to the abode of the lady—a
      Mrs. Arlington——"  
  "Mrs. Arlington," ejaculated Montague, a light flush animating his countenance.  
  "The same. She is   the friend   of Sir Rupert Harborough. I am anxious to see
      something of the world now and then—and to avail myself of my present garb for that purpose. I
      accordingly called upon Mrs. Arlington last evening, and learnt 'a lesson of life.' I saw an
      elegant woman, a baronet, a fashionable gentleman, and a very interesting young man,
      associating with a vulgar wretch of the name, I believe, of Talbot, whose manners would have
      disgraced a groom. I must, however, observe that the interesting young gentleman to whom I
      allude did not seem to be more pleased with the conversation and conduct of this vulgarian
      than myself. One coincidence somewhat extraordinary occurred—that same interesting young man
      was no other than Mr. Richard Markham, one of the sons of——"  
  "Ah! indeed—how singular!" exclaimed George Montague, not waiting till Walter finished his
      sentence; "very singular!" he added; then, having tossed off a bumper of Madeira, he walked up
      to the window, where he affected to inhale with delight the exquisite fragrance of the flowers
      that adorned the casement.  
  
  CHAPTER X. THE FRAIL ONE'S NARRATIVE.  
  WE must now return to Richard Markham.  
  Sir Rupert Harborough and the Honourable Arthur Chichester apparently took a very great
      fancy to him, for they were constantly making appointments to meet him in town, and hastening
      to his own house to ferret him out when he did not appear at their usual places of rendezvous.
      He dined at least three times a week at Mrs. Arlington's, and, to confess the truth, his
      morning calls were repeated at intervals which gradually grew shorter and shorter.  
  Richard thus frequently passed hours together alone with Diana. In spite of himself he now
      and then suffered his eyes to rest tenderly upon her countenance; and by degrees her glances
      encountered his and were not immediately withdrawn. Those glances were so languishing, and
      withal so melancholy, that they inspired Richard with a passion amounting almost to a
      delirium; and he felt at times as if he could have caught that beauteous creature in his arms
      and clasped her rapturously to his bosom.  
  One morning, as he took leave of her, he fancied that her hand gently pressed his own. The
      idea filled him with a joy till then unknown, and which he could not describe even to
      himself.  
  On the following morning he called a little earlier than usual. Diana was in a delicious
         déshabillé   to its very greatest advantage. Richard was more tender than usual—the
      Enchantress more enchanting.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  They were seated upon the sofa together; and a pause in their conversation ensued. Richard
      heaved a deep sigh, and suddenly exclaimed, "I am always thinking of the period when I must
      bid adieu to your charming society."  
  "Bid adieu!" cried Diana; "and wherefore?"  
  "It must happen, sooner or later, that our ways in the world will be different."  
  "Then you are not your own master?" said Diana, enquiringly.  
  "Certainly I am. But all friends must part some time or another."  
  "True," said Diana; then, in a subdued tone, she added, "There are certain persons who are
      attracted towards each other by kindred feelings and emotions, and it is painful—very painful,
      for them to part!"  
  "Heavens, Diana!" ejaculated Richard; "you feel as I do!"  
  She turned her face towards him; her cheeks were suffused in blushes, and her eyes were
      filled with tears. But through those tears she cast upon him a glance which ravished his
      inmost soul. It seemed fraught with love and tenderness, and inspired him with emotions which
      he had never known before. The words "You feel as I do," contained the ingenuous and
      unsophisticated avowal of a new passion on the part of a mind that was as yet as unskilled in
      the ways of this world as the unfledged bird in the nest of its mother is ignorant of the
      green woods. But those tears which stood in the lady's eyes, and the blushes which dyed her
      checks, and the glance which, like a sunbeam in the midst of an April shower, she darted upon
      the youth at her side, inspired him with courage, awakened undefined hopes, and filled him
      with an ecstacy of joy.  
  "Why do you weep, Diana? why do you weep?"  
  "You love me, Richard," she replied, turning her melting blue eyes fully upon him, and
      retaining them for some moments fixed upon his countenance: "you love me; and I feel—I know
      that I am not worthy of your affection!"  
   from a dream—as if he had abruptly awoke to a stern truth from a pleasing
      vision. He suffered her hand, which he had taken in his, to fall from his grasp; and for some
      moments he remained buried in a profound reverie.  
  "Ah! I knew that I should remind you of your duty towards yourself," said Diana, bitterly.
      "No—I am not worthy of you. But that you may hereafter give me credit for frankness and
      candour,—that you may be actually warned by myself   against   myself,—that you may learn
      to esteem me as a friend, if you will, I shall in a few words relate to you the incidents that
      made me what I am!"  
  "Proceed," said Richard, "proceed! Believe me I shall listen with attention,—with the
      greatest attention!"  
  "My father was a retired tradesman," began Mrs. Arlington; "and as I was his only child and
      he enjoyed a competency, he gave me the best education that money could procure. Probably the
      good old man made up his mind that I should one day espouse a nobleman; and, as my mother had
      died when I was very young, there was no one near me to correct the vanity with which my
      father's adulation and ambitious pretensions inspired me. About three years ago I met at the
      theatre—whither I went with some friends—a young gentleman—tall, handsome, and fascinating
      like yourself. He contrived to obtain a formal introduction to my father, and was invited to
      our house, at which he speedily became a constant visitor. He had a happy tact in suiting his
      humours or tastes to those with whom he came in contact; and he quite won my father's heart by
      playing chess with him, telling him the news of the City, and reading the evening paper to
      him. George Montague soon became an established favourite; and my father could do nothing
      without him. At length Montague proposed to him certain speculations in the funds: my father
      was allured by the prospect of quadrupling his capital, and consented. I must confess that the
      young man's handsome person had produced a certain effect upon me—a giddy young girl as I was
      at that time; and I rather encouraged my father in these schemes than otherwise. At first the
      speculations were eminently successful; but in a short time they took a turn. Day after day
      did Montague come to the house to announce fresh losses and the necessity of farther advances.
      He declared that he should now speculate for a grand stake, which could not fail shortly to
      turn to his advantage. A species of infatuation seized upon my father; and I was not aware of
      the ruinous course he was pursuing until it was too late. At length my father was totally
      ruined; and George come to announce to us the failure of our last chance. My father now
      repented when it was too late. Eight short months had sufficed to dissipate his whole fortune;
      he had not even enough left to pay the few debts which he had contracted, and which he had
      neglected to liquidate, trusting each day to the arrival of the lucky moment when he should
      find himself the master of millions!"  
  "Oh! the absurd hope!" exclaimed Richard, deeply interested in this narrative.  
  "Alas! this event was a fatal blow to my father's health, at the same time that it wrecked
      his happiness," continued Diana. "He implored Montague not to desert 'his darling child'—for
      so he called me—in case anything should happen to himself; and that same day—the day on which
      he saw all his prospects and hopes in this life blasted—he put a period to his existence by
      means of poison!"  
  "This was horrible!" cried Markham. "Oh! that villain Montague!"  
  "My father's creditors came to seize the few effects which remained," said Diana, after a
      pause; "and I was about to be turned houseless and unprotected into the streets, when Montague
      arrived. He took gold from his pocket, and satisfied the demands of the creditors. He moreover
      supplied me with money for my immediate wants. I was totally dependent upon him;—I had no
      relations—no friends to whom I could apply for succour or comfort. He seemed to commiserate my
      position——"  
  "Perhaps," observed Richard, "he was not so very guilty, after all, relative to the loss of
      your father's property?"  
  "Judge by the sequel," answered Diana bitterly. "He was as base as he was in reality
      unfeeling. The transition from that state of dependence upon a young man to a more degraded
      one still, was to be expected. He no longer talked to me of marriage, as he once had done; but
      he took advantage of my forlorn situation. I became his mistress."  
  "Ah! it was base—it was ungenerous—it was unmanly!" ejaculated Richard.  
  "He seemed to be possessed of ample resources; but he accounted for this circumstance by
      assuring me that he had found another friend who was backing him in the same speculations in
      which my poor father had failed. We lived together for four months; and he then coolly
      informed me that we must part. I found that I had never really entertained any very sincere
      affection for him; and the little love which I experienced at first, had been quenched in my
      bosom by his cold cruelty. He seemed unfeeling to a degree. Observations, calculated to wound
      most acutely, fell from his lips upon all occasions——"  
  "The dastard!" exclaimed Richard, profoundly touched by this recital.  
   any position, however menial,—I would have made any sacrifice, enjoyed any lot,
      so long as I was assured of earning my bread in a manner which need not make me blush. But
      society treated me with contempt. Why, in this Christian country, do they preach the Christian
      maxim, that '  there is more joy over one sinner who repenteth, than over ninety-and-nine
       just persons who need no repentance  ?' Why is this maxim preached, when the entire
      conduct of society expresses in terms which cannot be misunderstood, a bold denial of its
      truth?"  
  "Merciful heavens," ejaculated Richard, "can this be true? are you drawing a correct
      picture, Diana, or inventing a hideous fiction?"  
  "God knows how true is all I say!" returned Mrs. Arlington, with profound sincerity of tone
      and manner. "Want soon stared me in the face: what could I do? Chance threw me in the way of
      Sir Rupert Harborough:—compelled by an imperious necessity, I became his mistress. This is my
      history."  
  "And the baronet treats you kindly?" said Richard, inquiringly.  
  "The terms upon which our connexion is based do not permit him an opportunity of being
      either very kind or very cruel."  
  "I must now say farewell for the present," exclaimed Markham, afraid of trusting himself
      longer with the Syren who had fascinated him with her misfortunes as well as by her charms.
      "In a day or two I will see you again. Oh! I cannot blame you for what you have done:—I
      commiserate—I pity you! Could any sacrifice that I am capable of making, restore you to
      happiness and—and—"  
  "Honour, you would say," exclaimed Diana, firmly.  
  "I would gladly make that sacrifice," added Richard. "From this moment we will be
      friends—very sincere friends. I will be your brother, dearest Diana—and you shall be my
      sister!"  
  The young man rose from the sofa, as he uttered these disjointed sentences in a singularly
      wild and rapid manner; and Diana, without making any reply, but apparently deeply touched,
      pressed his hand for some moments between both her own.  
  Richard then hastily escaped from the presence of that charming and fascinating
      creature.  
  
  CHAPTER XI. "THE SERVANTS' ARMS."  
  UPON the same day that this event took place, Mr. Whittingham, the butler of Richard
      Markham, had solicited and obtained permission to pass the evening with a certain Mr. Thomas
      Suggett, who occupied the distinguished post of   valet de chambre   about the person of
      the Honourable Arthur Chichester. Whittingham was determined to enjoy himself:—he seemed
      suddenly to have cast off twenty years from his back, and to walk the more upright for having
      rid himself of the burthen;—his hat was slightly cocked on one side; and, as he walked along,
      with Mr. Thomas Suggett tucked under his arm, he struck his silver-headed bamboo, which he
      always carried with him when he went abroad on Sundays and holidays, very forcibly upon the
      pavement. Mr. Suggett declared "that, for his part, he was very well disposed for a spree;"
      and he threw into his gait a most awful swagger, which certainly excited considerable
      attention, because all the small boys in the streets laughed at him as he wended on his
      way.  
  "I wonder what them urchins are garping at so," said Whittingham. "It mystificates me in no
      inconsiderable degree. Raly the lower orders of English is exceedingly imperlite. I feel the
      most inwigorated disgust and the most unboundless contempt for their manners."  
  "That's jist like me," observed Suggett: "I can't a-bear the lower orders. I hate everythink
      wulgar.—But, by the bye, Mr. Whittingham, do you smoke?"  
  "I can't say but what I like a full-flavoured Havannah—a threepenny, mind," added the
      butler, pompously.  
  "Just my taste, Mr. Whittingham. If I can't afford threepennies, I won't smoke at all."  
  Mr. Suggett entered a cigar shop, purchased half-a-dozen   real Havannahs  
      (manufactured in St. John-street, Clerkenwell), joked with the young lady who served him, and
      then presented the one which he considered the best to his companion. The two gentlemen's
      gentlemen accordingly lighted their cigars, and then continued their walk along the New Road,
      in the vicinity of which Mr. Whittingham had met Mr. Suggett by appointment upon this
      memorable afternoon.  
  In a short time Mr. Suggett stopped suddenly at the door of a large white public-house, not
      a hundred miles distant from the new church, St. Pancras.  
  "This is a nice crib," said he. "Excellent company; and to-night there is a supper at
      eleven."  
  "The very identified thing," acquiesced Mr. Whittingham; and into the public-house they
      walked.  
  Nothing could be more neat and cleanly than the bar of the   Servants' Arms  —no one
      more obliging nor bustling than the "young lady" behind the bar. The   Servants' Arms  
      was reported to draw the best liquor in all the neighbourhood; and its landlord prided himself
      upon the superiority of his establishment over those which sold beer "at three-pence a-pot in
      your own jugs." And then what a rapid draught the landlord had for all his good things; and
      how crowded was the space before the bar with customers.  
  "Glass of ale—mild, Miss, if you please," said one.  
  "A quartern of gin and three outs, Caroline," cried a second, who was more familiar.  
  "Pint of half-and-half, here," exclaimed a third.  
  "Six of brandy, warm, Miss—four of gin, cold, and a pint of ale with the chill off—parlour!"
      ejaculated the waiter, who now made his appearance at the bar.  
  "Pot of porter; and master's compliments, and can you lend him yesterday's
         Advertiser   for half an hour or so?" said a pretty little servant girl, placing a
      large yellow jug on the bright lead surface of the bar.  
  "Pot of ale, and a screw, Miss."  
  "Pint of gin, for mixing, please."  
  "Bottle of Cape wine, at eighteen, landlord."  
  "Four-penn'orth of rum, cold without."  
  "Half pint of porter, and a pipe, Caroline."  
  only somewhat independent, because he was growing rich. He was never afraid at
      the end of month to see Truman and Hanbury's collector, and Nicholson's man, alight from their
      gigs at his door. They were always sure to find the money ready for them, when they sate down
      to write their receipts in the little narrow slip of a parlour behind the bar. In fact, the
      landlord of the   Servants' Arms  , was reported to be doing "a very snug business:"—and
      so he was.  
  Messrs. Whittingham and Suggett sauntered leisurely into the parlour of the   Servants'
       Arms  , and took their seats at the only table which remained unoccupied.  
  "Good evening, Sir," said the waiter, addressing Mr. Suggett with a sort of
      semi-familiarity, which showed that the latter gentleman was in the habit of "using the
      house."  
  "How are you, William?" cried Mr. Suggett, in a patronising manner. "George been here
      lately?"  
  "Not very: I think he's down in the country."  
  "Oh! Well, what shall we have, Mr. Whittingham—brandy and water?"  
  "That's my inwariable beverage, Mr. Suggett."  
  "Two sixes, gentlemen?" said the waiter.  
  "No," answered Mr. Whittingham, solemnly; "two shillings' worth, to begin with."  
  The liquor was supplied, and when the two gentlemen had tasted it, and found it to their
      liking, they glanced around the room to survey the company. It soon appeared that Mr. Suggett
      was well known to many of the gentlemen present; for, upon making his survey, he acknowledged,
      with a nod or a short phrase, the bows or salutations of those with whom he was
      acquainted.  
  "Ah! Mr. Guffins, always up in the same corner, eh?" said he, addressing a middle-aged man
      in seedy black: "got a new work in the press, 'spose? You literary men contrive to enjoy
      yourselves, I know. How do you do, Mr. Mac Chizzle?" looking towards a short, pock-marked man,
      with a quick grey eye, and black hair combed upright off his forehead: "how get on the
      clients? Plenty of business, eh? Ah! you lawyers always contrive to do well. Mr. Drummer, your
      servant, sir. Got a good congregation still, sir?"  
  "The chapel thriveth well, I thank you—as well as can be expected in these times of heathen
      abominations," answered a demure-looking middle-aged gentleman, who was clad in deep black and
      wore a white neck-cloth, which seemed (together with the condition of his shirt and stockings)
      to denote that although he had gained the confidence of his flock, he had certainly lost that
      of his washer-woman. After having taken a long draught of a pint of half-and-half which stood
      before him, he added, "There is a many savoury vessels in my congregation—reputable, pious,
      and prayer-full people, which pays regular for their sittings and fears the Lord."  
  "Well, I am glad of that," ejaculated Mr. Suggett. "But, ah!" he cried, observing a thin
      white-haired old gentleman, with huge silver spectacles hanging half-way down his nose,—"I'm
      glad to see Mr. Cobbington here. How gets on the circulating library, eh—sir?"  
  "Pretty well—pretty well, thank'ee," returned the bookseller: "pretty well—considering."  
  A great many people qualify their observations and answers by the addition of the word
       "  considering  ;" but they seldom vouchsafe an explanation of   what is to be
       considered  . Sometimes they use the phrase "considering all things;" and then the mind
      has so much to consider, that it cannot consider any one thing definitively. It would be much
      more straightforward and satisfactory if persons would relieve their friends of all suspense,
      and say boldly at once, as the case may be, "  considering   the execution I have got in
      my house;" or "  considering   the writ that's out against me;" or even
       "  considering   the trifling annoyance of not having a shilling in my pocket, and not
      knowing where to look for one." But, somehow or another, people never will be candid
      now-a-days; and Talleyrand was right when he said that "language was given to man to enable
      him to conceal his thoughts."  
  But to continue.  
  Mr. Suggett glanced a little further around the room, and recognized another old
      acquaintance.  
  "Ah! Snoggles, how are you?"  
  "Very well, thank'ee—how be you?"  
  "Blooming; but how come you here?"  
  "I dropped in quite permiscuously," answered Snoggles, "and finding good company, stayed.
      But it is up'ards o' three years since I see you, Mr. Suggett."  
  "About. What grade do you now fill in the profession? Any promotion?"  
  "I'm sorry to say not," replied Mr. Snoggles, shaking his head mournfully. "I've tumbled off
      the box down to a level with the osses;" which, being interpreted, means that Mr. Snoggles had
      fallen from the high estate of coachman to the less elevated rank of ostler. "But what rank do
      you now hold?"  
  "I left off the uniform of   tiger   last month," answered Mr. Suggett, "and received
      the brevet of walley-de-chambre."  
  "That gentleman one of the profession?" demanded Snoggles, alluding to Mr. Whittingham.  
  "Mr. Markham's butler, sir, at your service," said Whittingham, bowing with awe-inspiring
      stiffness: "and I may say, without exag-gerating, sir, and in no wise compromising my
      indefatigable character for weracity, that I'm also Mr. Markham's confidential friend. And
      what's more, gen'leman," added the butler, glancing proudly around the room, "Mr. Richard
      Markham is the finest young man about this stupendous city of the whole universe—and that's as
      true as that this is a hand."  
  As Mr. Whittingham concluded this sentence, he extended his arm to display the hand relative
      to which he expressed such confidence; and while he flourished the arm to give weight to his
      language, the aforesaid hand encountered the right eye of the dissenting parson.  
  "A case of assault and battery," instantly exclaimed Mr. Mac Chizzle, the lawyer; "and here
      are upwards of a dozen witnesses for the plaintiff."  
  "I really beg the gentleman's pardon," said Whittingham.  
  "Special jury—sittings after term—damages five hundred pounds;" exclaimed Mac Chizzle.  
  "No harm was intended," observed Suggett.  
  "Not a bit," added Snoggles.  
  "Verdict for Plaintiff—enter up judgment—issue execution—  ca. sa.   in no time," said
      Mac Chizzle doggedly.  
  "I am used to flagellations and persecutions at the hands of the ungodly," said the Reverend
      Mr. Drummer, rubbing his eye with his fist, and thereby succeeding in inflaming it.  
   extra powerful glass of brandy and water?" exclaimed Whittingham.  
  "Bribery," murmured Mac Chizzle.  
  "No, let us have a bowl of punch at once," exclaimed Suggett.  
  "And corruption," added the lawyer.  
  The bowl of punch was ordered, and the company generally was invited to partake of it. Even
      Mr. Mac Chizzle did not hesitate; and the dissenting minister, in order to convince Mr.
      Whittingham that he entirely forgave him, consented to partake of the punch so often that he
      at length began slapping Mr. Whittingham upon the back, and declaring that he was the best
      fellow in the world.  
  The conversation became general; and some of it is worth recording.  
  "I hope to have your patronage, sir, for my circulating library," said Mr. Cobbington to the
      butler.  
  "Depends, sir, upon the specified nature of the books it contains," was the reply.  
  "I have nothing but moral romances in which vice is always punished and virtue
      rewarded."  
  "That conduct of yours is highly credulous to you."  
  "All books is trash, except one," observed Mr. Drummer, winking his eyes in an extraordinary
      manner. "They teaches naught but swearing, lewd conversation, ungodliness, and that worst of
      all vices—intemperance."  
  "I beg you to understand, sir," exclaimed Mr. Guffins, who had hitherto remained a silent
      spectator of the proceedings, although a persevering partaker of the punch; "I beg you to
      understand, Mr. Drummer, my works, sir, are not the trash you seem to allude to."  
  "I won't understand nothing nor nobody," answered the reverend gentleman, swaying backwards
      and forwards in his chair. "Leave me to commune with myself upon the vanities of this wicked
      world, and—and—drink my punch in quiet."  
  "Humbug!" exclaimed the literary man, swallowing his resentment and the remainder of his
      punch simultaneously.  
  "Ah!" said the bookseller, after a pause; "nothing now succeeds unless it's in the comic
      line. We have comic Latin grammars, and comic Greek grammars; indeed, I don't know but what
      English grammar, too, is a comedy altogether. All our tragedies are made into comedies by the
      way they are performed; and no work sells without comic illustrations to it. I have brought
      out several new comic works, which have been very successful. For instance, '  The Comic
       Wealth of Nations  ;' '  The Comic Parliamentary Speeches  ;' '  The Comic Report
       of the Poor-Law Commissioners  ,' with an Appendix containing the '  Comic Dietary
       Scale  ;' and the '  Comic Distresses of the Industrious Population  .' I even
      propose to bring out a '  Comic Whole Duty of Man  .' All these books sell well: they do
      admirably for the nurseries of the children of the aristocracy. In fact they are as good as
      manuals and text-books."  
  "This rage for the comic is most unexpressedly remarkable," observed the butler.  
  "It is indeed!" ejaculated Snoggles; and, in order to illustrate the truth of the statement,
      he jerked a piece of lemon-peel very cleverly into the dissenting parson's left eye.  
  "That's right—stone me to death!" murmured the reverend gentleman. "My name is Stephen—and
      it is all for righteousness' sake! I know I'm a chosen vessel, and may become a martyr. My
      name is Stephen, I tell you—Stephen Drum—um—ummer!"  
  He then began an eulogium upon meekness and resignation under injuries, and reiterated his
      conviction that he was a chosen vessel; but, becoming suddenly excited by a horse-laugh which
      fell upon his ear, he forgot all about the chosen vessel, and lifted another very savagely
      from the table. In a word, he seized a pewter pot in his hand, and would have hurled it at Mr.
      Snoggles' head, had not Mr. Whittingham stopped the dangerous missile in time, and pacified
      the reverend gentleman by calling for more punch.  
  "We must certainly have those two men bound over to keep the peace," said Mac Chizzle; "two
      sureties in fifty, and themselves in a hundred, each."  
  "I shall dress the whole scene up for one of the   Monthlies  ," observed Mr.
      Guffins.  
  "If you do, you'll be indictable for libel," said Mac Chizzle. "The greater the truth, the
      greater the libel."  
  In the meanwhile Suggett and his friend Snoggles drew close to each other, and entered into
      conversation.  
  "It must be about three years since I saw you last," said the latter.  
  "Three year, come January," observed Suggett.  
  "Ah! I've seed some strange wicissitudes in the interval," continued Snoggles. "I went
      abroad as coachman, with a dashing young chap of the name of Winchester—"  
  "The devil you did! how singular! why my present guvner's name is Chichester."  
  "Well, I des say they're cousins then," said the ostler; "but I hope your'n won't treat you
      as mine did me. He seemed to have no end of tin for some months, and lived—my eye, how he
      lived! King's Bench dinners ain't nothin' to what his'n was; and yet I've heard say that the
      prisoners live there better than their creditors outside. Howsomever—things didn't always go
      on swimmingly. We went to Baden—called so cos of the baths; and there my guvner got involved
      in some gambling transactions, as forced him to make his name   Walker  . Well, he
      bolted, leaving all his traps behind, and me amongst them, and not a skurrick to pay the hotel
      bill and find my way back agin to England. The landlord he seized the traps, and I was forced
      to walk all the way to—I forget the name of the place—"  
  "Constantinople, perhaps," said Suggett, kindly endeavouring to assist his friend in his
      little geographical embarrassments.  
  "No; that ain't it," returned Snoggles. "Howsomever, I had every kind of difficulty to fight
      up against; and I never see my guvner from that day to this. He owed me eight pound, nineteen,
      and sixpence for wages; and he was bound by contract to bring me back to England."  
  "Disgraceful raskel, that he was!" ejaculated Mr. Suggett. "I raly think that we gentlemen
      ought to establish a society for our protection. The Licensed Witlers have   their  
      Association; why shouldn't we have the Gentlemen's Gentlemen organized into a society?"  
  "Why not?" said Snoggles.  
   with the parlour of the   Servants' Arms  , removed to the banqueting
      saloon, where the table was spread with a snow-white cloth and black handled knives and forks.
      At intervals stood salt-cellars and pepper boxes, the latter resembling in shape the three
      little domes upon the present National Gallery in Trafalgar Square. A huge round of boiled
      beef tripe both boiled and fried, and rump steaks, formed the supper. The methodist parson
      insisted upon being allowed to say grace—or, as he expressed it, "ask a blessing," for which
      purpose the same neighbours who had kindly helped him up the stairs, now sustained him upon
      his legs. Dread was the havoc then made upon the various dainties on the table, Mr. Guffins
      being especially characterised by a good appetite upon this occasion.  
  The Reverend Mr. Drummer was also far from being behind-hand in this onslaught upon the
      luxuries supplied by the   Servants' Arms  ; and while he bolted huge mouthfuls of boiled
      beef, he favoured the company with an excellent moral dissertation upon abstemiousness and
      self-mortification. Mr. Drummer was, however, one of those who content themselves with
      inculcating morality, and do not consider it necessary to set an example in their own persons;
      for, after having clearly demonstrated that gluttony and drunkenness lead to blasphemy,
      ungodliness, and profane swearing, he abruptly turned to the landlord, who presided at the
      supper-table, and, holding his plate to be filled for the fourth time, exclaimed, "D—n your
      eyes, don't cut it so infernally thick!"  
  After supper, "glasses round" of hot brandy and water were introduced, and the conversation
      was carried on with considerable spirit. It was midnight before the party thought of breaking
      up, although several of the gentlemen present had already begun to see three or four Dutch
      clocks staring them in the face besides the one which graced the wall. As for the Reverend Mr.
      Drummer, he declared that he was so affected by the ungodly proceedings of those present that
      he should forthwith endeavour to wash away their guilt with his tears; and it is distressing
      to be compelled to observe that all the reward this truly pious and deserving man experienced
      at the hands of the ungrateful company, was the cruel accusation that he was "crying drunk."
      This disgraceful behaviour produced such an effect upon his naturally nervous temperament,
      that he fell flat upon the floor, and was compelled to be taken in a wheelbarrow to his own
      house close by.  
  We may also add here that on the following day this proceeding was rumoured abroad, so that
      the much injured minister was necessitated to justify his conduct from the pulpit on the
      ensuing sabbath. This he did so effectually, that two old ladies, who carried small flasks of
      brandy in their pockets, were conveyed out of the chapel in a peculiar state—no doubt
      overpowered by the minister's eloquence. They however recovered at the expiration of some
      hours, and immediately opened a subscription to present a piece of plate to the Reverend
      Stephen Drummer, together with a vote of thanks and confidence on the part of the
      congregation. The vote was respectfully, but gratefully declined by this holy man; but, after
      some little entreaty, he was prevailed upon to accept the plate. From that time to the present
      day his congregation has been rapidly increasing; and, although envy and jealousy have
      declared that he himself helped to augment its numbers in the shape of three innocent little
      children by different servant-girls, he very properly disdained to contradict the report, and
      is considered by his flock to be a chosen and savoury vessel of the Lord.  
  
  CHAPTER XII. THE BANK-NOTES.  
  WHEN Richard left the presence of Diana, after the full confession of her frailty, he
      hurried home on horseback at a rate which kept pace with his thoughts.  
  Upon reaching his dwelling, he retired to his apartment, and sate himself down seriously to
      consider all that had taken place.  
  His eyes were now open to two facts:—in the first instance he saw that he had been giving
      way to a passion which was dishonourable in respect to the relations existing between its
      object and another individual—the baronet; and, secondly, he perceived that even if that
      barrier were removed, Diana was not the being whom he ought to make the partner of his
      fortunes. He was endowed with feelings and notions of the most scrupulous honour; and he
      deeply regretted that he should ever have been induced to utter a word or manifest a sentiment
      towards Diana, which he would have been ashamed for the baronet to become acquainted with. To
      such an extent did he carry his notions of honour, that if, for instance, he had pledged
      himself to keep a secret, he would sooner have suffered himself to be put to death than have
      forfeited his word. Even were a crime communicated to him in confidence, he would not have
      benefitted society by handing the perpetrator over to justice. He thus fell into an extreme
      almost as dangerous and fatal as the total absence of moral rectitude.  
  If the reader should marvel how a young man possessing such punctilious sentiments, could
      have so far forgotten himself as to declare his affection to one who stood in the light of a
      friend's wife,—let it be remembered that he was surprised into a partial avowal of that
      passion: and that a certain impulse, favoured by a rapid succession of visits, parties, and
         tête-â-tête   interviews, in which the object thereof was always present, had hurried
      him onward up to that point when a word was to decide his fate.  
  Love is a stream so rapid that he who embarks upon it does not observe that his rude boat
      crushes the beauteous flowers upon the banks between which it passes:—it is a river whose
      waters are those of oblivion, in which all other passions, sentiments, and ideas are swallowed
      up.  
  O woman, what power hast thou over the heart of man! Thou wast born a creature of grace and
      fascination: to whatever clime thou dost belong, neither habit nor costume can deface in thee
      that natural charm of witchery and love which characterises thee in all the relations of
      life.  
  Richard had not been long alone, when a knock at his door aroused him from the reverie in
      which had been plunged; and Mr. Chichester entered the room.  
    
  "I am not well—I am anxious to be alone."  
  "But I shall not allow you to remain alone," said Chichester. "If you should feel
      melancholy, what guarantee have I that you will not commit suicide, or do what is nearly as
      bad—sit down and write sentimental poetry?"  
  "I am not very likely to do either."  
  "You must come and join us: the baronet——"  
  "I would rather——"  
  "I can take no excuse. Order round your chestnut, and let us be off."  
  "Well—at all events I must go straight into the City first," said Markham. "I have occasion
      to call at my guardian's banker."  
  "Will you join me at seven precisely this evening, at Harborough's own lodgings in
      Conduit-street? We shall expect you."  
  "You may rely upon me," answered Markham who now suddenly experienced an anxiety for society
      and bustle. "But who will be there?"  
  "Only the baronet, you, I, and Talbot—a   partie quarre  . Talbot is really a good
      fellow at heart, and has taken a great liking to you. Besides, he is the most liberal and
      generous fellow in existence. He sent a hundred pounds to every hospital in London yesterday
      morning—his annual donations; and he thinks that no one knows anything about it. He always
      puts himself down as X. Y. Z. in the lists of charitable subscriptions: he is so
      unostentatious!"  
  "Those are admirable traits in his character."  
  "They are, indeed. Just now, for instance, he heard of a horrid case of distress. Only
      conceive a poor man, with nine small children and a wife just ready to present him with a
      tenth, dragged to Whitecross Street Prison, for a paltry hundred pounds! Talbot instantly
      called me aside, and said, '  Chichester, my dear fellow, I have not time to attend to any
       business to-day. There is a five hundred pound note; have the kindness to get it changed for
       me, and devote a hundred pounds to save the unhappy family.  ' Those were Talbot's own
      words," added Mr. Chichester surveying Richard in a peculiar manner from under his
      eyebrows.  
  "How liberal! how grand! how noble!" exclaimed Richard, forgetting all Mr. Talbot's
      vulgarity and coarseness, as he listened to these admirable traits of philanthropy. "To be
      candid with you, I am myself going to the banker's to draw some money; and when I see you this
      evening, I shall be happy to place twenty pounds in your hands for the use of that poor
      family."  
  "No, my dear fellow, keep your money: the baronet and I shall take care of those poor
      people."  
  "Nay—I insist—"  
  "Well—I am sorry now that I told you of the circumstance."  
  "And I am very glad."  
  "There—you shall have your own way then. But, by the by," added Chichester, a sudden thought
      appearing to strike him, "you are going into the City, and to your banker's?"  
  "Yes. And you?"  
  "I am anxious to get back to the West End as hastily as possible," answered Chichester. "You
      could do me a service, if you would?"  
  "Name it," said Richard.  
  "Get this note changed for me in the City," returned Chichester: and as he spoke he drew a
      Bank of England note for five hundred pounds from his pocket.  
  "Oh! certainly," cried Markham; and he took charge of the note accordingly.  
  He and Mr. Chichester then separated. Richard mounted his horse and rode towards the City,
      while his friend proceeded to the West End.  
  At seven o'clock Richard was ushered into Sir Rupert Harborough's drawing-room in
      Conduit-street, Hanover Square.  
  "There!" exclaimed Chichester, who was lounging upon the sofa; "I knew that my melancholy
      young gentleman would be punctual."  
  "Delighted to see you, Markham," said the baronet, pressing his hand with more than usual
      fervour.  
  "How are you, my tulip?" shouted Talbot. "Why, Chichester said you had the blue devils!"  
  "I really felt unequal to society to-day," returned Richard; "and I fancied that a little
      rest——"  
  "A little humbug!" ejaculated Mr. Talbot. "That's all my eye and my elbow, Markham. A d—d
      good bottle of champagne will soon put you to rights. But when I'm ill, what do you think I
      always take?"  
  "I really can't guess."  
  "Why, going to bed I always take a pint of dog's nose. There's nothing like dog's-nose for
      getting into the system. You must have it in the pewter, you know—and nice and hot: you will
      then sweat a bucket-full in the course of the night, and get up in the morning as right as a
      trivet. I can assure you there's nothing like dog's-nose."  
  "And pray what is dog's-nose!" enquired Richard.  
  "Well, may I be hanged! you are jolly green not to know what dog's-nose is! You take half a
      pint of the best half-and-half—or you may have ale all alone, if you like—a quartern of blue
      ruin——"  
  "It is a mixture of gin, beer, and sugar," said Mr. Chichester, impatiently.  
  "Well, and why couldn't you let me tell the gentleman how to make dog's-nose in my own
      manner?" asked Talbot, somewhat sulkily. "However, there's nothing better than dog's-nose for
      the gripes, or wind on the stomach, or the rheumatics. For my part——"  
  "D—n your part!" cried the Honourable Arthur Chichester, now absolutely losing all
      patience.  
  Fortunately for all parties, the door was at that moment thrown open, and a valet announced
      that dinner was served up. Richard took advantage of the haste with which Mr. Talbot rushed
      down stairs to the dining-room, to slip a bundle of Bank of England notes and a quantity of
      gold into Chichester's hand, whispering at the same time "There is your change, together with
      my twenty pounds for the poor family."  
  "Thank you, my boy," said Chichester, and over Markham's shoulder, he exchanged with the
      baronet a significant glance of satisfaction amounting almost to joy.  
  Meantime Mr. Talbot had rushed to his place at the dinner-table, declaring that "he was
      uncommonly peckish," and began sharpening his two knives one against the other. The baronet
      took his seat at the top of the table; Mr. Chichester at the bottom; and Markham sate opposite
      to Talbot.  
  "This soup is unexceptionable," observed Chichester: "I never tasted better save once—and
      that was at the King of Prussia's table."  
  "Ah! I once had d—d good pea-soup, I remember, at the Duke of Lambeth's table," ejaculated
      Mr. Talbot. "But, I say, who the devil's that kicking my unfortunate soft corn?"  
   "I suppose we'd all better join in," suggested Talbot.  
  "  I   shall be happy to drink wine with   you  , Mr. Talbot," said the baronet,
      with a reproving emphasis upon the pronouns.  
  "Just as you please," returned the man of charity, who certainly required some virtue or
      another to cover such a multitude of sins of vulgarity. "I wonder what's coming next. I say,
      Harborough, you haven't ordered any tripe, have you? I am so fond of tripe. There's nothing
      like tripe and onions for supper."  
  The dinner passed away; and the bottle was circulated pretty freely. Richard regained his
      good spirits, and offered no objection when Chichester proposed a stroll up Regent's-street
      with a cigar.  
  The baronet and Talbot went together first; and Markham was about to follow, when Chichester
      drew him back into the dining-room, and said, "Excuse me: but you went to your banker's
      to-day. If you have much money about you, it is not safe to carry it about the streets of
      London at night-time."  
  "I have fifty-five pounds in gold and fifty pounds in notes," answered Markham.  
  "Notes are safe enough," returned Chichester; "but gold is dangerous. Some one would be sure
      to   frisk   your purse. Here—I tell you how we can manage it—give me fifty sovereigns,
      and I will give you a fifty pound note in exchange. I can then lock up the gold in the
      baronet's writing-desk, the key of which, I see, he has fortunately left in the lock."  
  Chichester glanced, as he spoke, to the writing-desk, which stood upon a little table
      between the windows.  
  "I am much obliged to you for the thought," said Richard: "it is very considerate of
      you."  
  He accordingly handed over his purse of gold to his kind friend, and received in exchange a
      fifty pound note, which Mr. Chichester selected from a huge roll that he took from his
      pocket.  
  The two gentlemen then hastened to rejoin the baronet and Talbot, whom they overtook in
      Regent-street.  
  They all walked leisurely along towards the Quadrant; and while Talbot engaged Markham in
      conversation upon some trivial topic or another, Chichester related in a few words to the
      baronet the particulars of the little pecuniary arrangement which had just taken place.  
  
  CHAPTER XIII. THE HELL.  
  AFTER having taken a few turns in Regent-street, the baronet observed "that it was devilish
      slow work;" Mr. Talbot suggested the propriety of "a spree;" and Mr. Chichester declared "that
      as his friend Markham was anxious to see   life  , the best thing they could all do was
      to drop in for an hour at No. ——, Quadrant."  
  "What place is that?" demanded Markham.  
  "Oh; only an establishment for cards and dice, and other innocent diversions," carelessly
      answered Chichester.  
  The Quadrant of an evening is crowded with loungers of both sexes. Beneath those arcades
      walk the daughters of crime, by ones and twos—dressed in the flaunting garb that tells so
      forcibly the tale of broken hearts, and blighted promise, and crushed affections,—to lose an
      hour amidst the haunts of pleasure and of vice, and to court the crime by which alone they
      live. The young men that saunter arm-in-arm up and down, and the hoary old sinners, whose
      licentious glances seem to plunge down into the depths of the boddices of those frail but
      beauteous girls, little think of the amount of mental suffering which is contained beneath
      those gay satins and rustling silks. They mark the heaving of the voluptuous bosom, but dream
      not of the worm that gnaws eternally within:—they behold smiles upon the red lips, and are far
      from suspecting that the hearts of those who laugh so joyfully are all but broken!  
  Thus is it that in the evening the Quadrant has a characteristic set of loungers of its
      own:—or, at least, it is frequented after dusk by a population whose characters are easily to
      be defined.  
  A bright lamp burnt in the fan-light over the door of No. ——. Mr. Chichester gave a loud and
      commanding knock; and a policeman standing by, who doubtless had several golden reasons for
      not noticing anything connected with that establishment, instantly ran across the road after a
      small boy whom he suspected to be a thief, because the poor wretch wore an uncommonly shabby
      hat. The summons given by Mr. Chichester was not immediately answered. Five minutes elapsed
      ere any attention was paid to it; and then the door was only opened to the small extent
      allowed by a chain inside. A somewhat repulsive looking countenance was at the same time
      protruded from behind the door.  
  "Well?" said the man to whom the countenance belonged.  
  "All right," returned Chichester.  
  The chain was withdrawn, and the door was opened to its full extent. The party was thereupon
      admitted, with some manifestations of impatience on the part of the porter, who no doubt
      thought that the door was kept open too long, into a passage at the end of which was a
      staircase covered with a handsome carpet.  
  Chichester led the way, and his companions followed, up to a suite of rooms on the first
      floor. These were well furnished, and brilliantly lighted; and red moreen curtains, with heavy
      and rich fringes, were carefully drawn over the windows. Splendid mirrors stood above the
      mantels, which were also adorned with French timepieces in   or molu  , and candelabra of
      the same material. On one side of the front room stood a bouffet covered with wines and
      liquors of various descriptions.  
  In the middle of that same front apartment was the   rouge et noir   table. On each
      side sate a   Croupier  , with a long rake in his hand, and a green shade over his eyes.
      Before one of them was placed a tin case: this was the   Bank  ;—and on each side of that
      cynosure of all attention, stood little piles of markers, or counters.  
  Two or three men—well but flashily dressed, and exhibiting a monstrous profusion of
      Birmingham jewellery about their persons—sate at the table. These were the
        Bonnets  —individuals in reality in the pay of the proprietor of the establishment, and
      whose duties consist in enticing strangers and visitors to play, or in maintaining an
      appearance of playing deeply when such strangers and visitors first enter the room.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Not so was it with the Bonnets. These gentlemen were compelled to affect exuberant joy when
      they won, and profound grief or rage when they lost. From time to time they paid a visit to
      the sideboard, and helped themselves to wine or spirits, or regaled themselves with cigars.
      These refreshments were supplied gratuitously to all comers by the proprietor: this apparent
      liberality was upon the principle of throwing out a sprat to catch a whale.  
  When none save the Croupiers and Bonnets are present, they throw aside their assumed
      characters, and laugh, and joke, and chatter, and smoke, and drink; but the moment steps are
      heard upon the staircase, they all relapse with mechanical exactitude into their business
      aspect. The Croupiers put on their imperturbable countenances as easily as if they were masks;
      and the Bonnets appear to be as intent upon the game, as if its results were to them
      perspective life or death.  
  The Croupiers are usually trustworthy persons well known to the proprietor, or else
      shareholders themselves in the establishment. The Bonnets are young men of education and
      manners, who have probably lost the ample fortunes wherewith they commenced life, in the very
      whirlpool to which, for a weekly stipend, they are employed to entice others.  
  In one of the inner rooms there was a roulette-table; but this was seldom used. A young lad
      held the almost sinecure office of attending upon it.  
  The front room was tolerably crowded on the evening when Chichester, Markham, the baronet,
      and Talbot, honoured the establishment with a visit.  
  The moment they entered the apartment, Richard instinctively drew back, and, catching hold
      of Chichester's arm, whispered to him in a hurried and anxious manner, "Tell me, is this a
      Gambling-House? is it what I have heard called a Hell?"  
  "It is a Gambling-House, if you will, my dear fellow," was the reply; "but a most
      respectable one. Besides—you must see life, you know!"  
  With these words he took Markham's arm, and conducted him up to the   rouge et noir  
      table.  
   twenty, was seated at the further end of the green-baize covered board. A huge
      pile of notes and gold lay before him; but at rapid intervals one of the Croupiers raked away
      the stakes which he deposited; and thus his heap of money was gradually growing smaller.  
  "Well, this is extraordinary!" ejaculated the young officer; "I never saw the luck set so
      completely in against me. However—I can afford to lose a little; for I broke your bank for you
      last night, my boys?"  
  "What does that mean?" demanded Richard in a whisper.  
  "He won all the money which the proprietor deposited in that tin case, he means," replied
      Chichester.  
  "And how much do you suppose that might be?"  
  "About fifteen hundred to two thousand pounds."  
  "Here—waiter!" exclaimed the young officer, who had just lost another stake,—"a glass of
      claret."  
  The waiter handed him a glass of the wine so demanded. The young officer did not notice him
      for a moment, but waited to see the result of the next chance.  
  He lost again.  
  He turned round to seize the glass of wine; but when his eyes caught sight of it, his
      countenance became almost livid with rage.  
  "Fool! idiot!" he ejaculated, starting from his seat: "bring me a tumbler—a large tumbler
      full of claret; my mouth is as parched as h—l, and my stomach is like a lime-kiln."  
  The waiter hastened to comply with the wishes of the young gambler. The tumbler of claret
      was supplied; and the game continued.  
  Still the officer lost.  
  "A cigar!" he shouted, in a fearful state of excitement—"bring me a cigar!"  
  The waiter handed him a box of choice Havannahs, that he might make his selection.  
  "Why the devil don't you bring a light at the same time, you d—d infernal rascal?" cried the
      gamester; and while the domestic hastened to supply this demand also, he poured a volley of
      most horrible oaths at the bewildered wretch's head.  
  Again the play proceeded.  
  And again the young officer lost.  
  His pile of gold was gone: the Croupier who kept the bank changed one of his remaining
      notes.  
  "That makes three thousand that I have lost already, by G—d!" ejaculated the young
      officer.  
  "Including the amount you won last night, I believe," said one of the Bonnets.  
  "Well, sir, and suppose it is—what the deuce is that to you?" demanded the officer fiercely.
      "Have I not been here night after night for these six weeks? and have I not lost
      thousands—thousands? When did I ever get a vein of good luck until last night? But never
      mind—I'll play on—I'll play till the end: I will either win all back, or lose everything
      together. And then—in the latter case—"  
  He stopped: he had just lost again. His countenance grew ghastly pale, and he bit his lips
      convulsively.  
  "Claret—more claret!" he exclaimed, throwing away the Havannah: "that cigar only makes me
      the more thirsty."  
  And again the play proceeded.  
  "I am really afraid to contemplate that young man's countenance," whispered Markham to
      Chichester.  
  "Why so?"  
  "I have an idea that if he should prove unsuccessful he will commit suicide. I have a great
      mind just to mention my fears to these men in the green shades, who seem to be winning all his
      money."  
  "Pray be quiet. They will only laugh at you."  
  "But the life of a fellow-creature?"  
  "What do they care?"  
  "Do you mean to say they are such wretches—"  
  "I mean that they do not care one fig what may happen so long as they get the money."  
  Markham was struck speechless with horror as he heard this cold-blooded announcement.
      Chichester had however stated nothing but the truth.  
  The proceedings were now fearfully interesting. The young officer was worked up to a most
      horrible state of excitement: his losses continued to be unvaried by a single gleam of good
      fortune. Still he persisted in his ruinous career: note after note was changed. At length his
      last was melted into gold. He now became absolutely desperate: his countenance was
      appalling;—the frenzy of gambling and the inflammatory effects of the liquors he had been
      drinking, rendered his really handsome features positively hideous.  
  Markham had never beheld such a scene before, and felt afraid. His companions surveyed it
      with remarkable coolness.  
  The play proceeded; and in a few moments the officer's last stake was swept away.  
  Then the croupiers paused, as it were, by common consent; and all eyes were directed towards
      the object of universal interest.  
  "Well—I said I would play until I won all or lost all," he said; "and I have done so.
      Waiter, give me another tumbler of claret: it will compose me."  
  He laughed bitterly as he uttered these words.  
  The claret was brought: he drained the tumbler, and threw it upon the table, where it broke
      into a dozen pieces.  
  "Clear this away, Thomas," said one of the Croupiers, completely unmoved.  
  "Yes, sir;" and the fragments of the tumbler disappeared forthwith.  
  The Bonnets, perceiving the presence of other strangers, were now compelled to withdraw
      their attention from the ruined gambler, and commence playing.  
  And so the play again proceeded.  
  "Where is my hat, waiter?" demanded the young officer, after a pause, during which he had
      gazed vacantly upon the game.  
  "In the passage, sir—I believe."  
  "No—I remember, it is in the inner room. But do not trouble yourself—I will fetch it
      myself."  
  "Very good, sir;" and the waiter did not move.  
  The young officer sauntered, in a seeming leisurely manner, into the innermost room of the
      suite.  
  "What a shocking scene!" whispered Markham to Chichester. "I am glad I came hither this
      once: it will be a lesson for me which I can never forget."  
  At this instant the report of a pistol echoed sharply through the rooms.  
  There was a simultaneous rush to the inner apartment:—Markham's presentiments were
      fulfilled—the young officer had committed suicide.  
  His brains were literally blown out, and he lay upon the carpet weltering in his blood.  
   the foremost who made this movement, and were thereby enabled to effect their
      escape.  
  Markham stood rivetted to the spot, unaware that his companions had left him, and
      contemplating with feelings of supreme horror the appalling spectacle before him.  
  Suddenly the cry of "The police" fell upon his ears; and heavy steps were heard hurrying up
      the staircase.  
  "The Bank!" ejaculated one of the Croupiers.  
  "All right!" cried the other; and in a moment the lights were extinguished, as by magic,
      throughout the entire suite of rooms.  
  Obeying a natural impulse, Markham hastened towards the door; but his progress was stopped
      by a powerful hand, and in an instant the bull's-eye of a lantern glared upon his
      countenance.  
  He was in the grasp of a police officer.  
  
  CHAPTER XIV. THE STATION-HOUSE.  
  OF all the persons who were in the gambling-house at the moment when the police, alarmed by
      the report of the pistol, broke in, Richard Markham was alone captured. The others, aware of
      the means of egress in emergencies of this kind, had rushed up stairs, entered upon the leads,
      and thus obtained admittance into the adjacent dwelling, from whose friendly doors they
      subsequently issued one by one when all was once more quiet in the street.  
  The police-officer conducted Markham to the nearest station-house. They entered a low dark
      gloomy apartment, which was divided into two parts by means of a thick wooden bar running
      across the room, about two feet and a half from the ground. There was a small dull fire in the
      grate; and in a comfortable arm-chair near it, was seated the inspector—a short, stout,
      red-faced, consequential-looking man, with a pen stuck behind his left ear. A policeman in
      uniform was standing at a high desk, turning over the leaves of a large book; and another
      officer in plain clothes (and very plain and shabby they were too) was lounging before the
      fire, switching the dust out of his trousers with a thin cane.  
  "Well, what now?" said the inspector, gruffly, as Markham was conducted into the office, and
      led behind the bar, towards the fire.  
  "Me, and Jones, and Jenkins, broke into No.—, in the Quadrant, as we heard a pistol—or else
      we should ha' known ourselves better; and this young feller is all we caught. Jones and
      Jenkins is staying in the house along with the dead body of the man as killed his self."  
  The inspector indulged in a good long stare at Markham; and, when his curiosity was
      completely gratified, he said, "Now, Crisp, we'll enter that charge, if you please."  
  The policeman standing at the desk turned to the proper leaf in the large book before him,
      and then took down the deposition of the officer who had apprehended Markham.  
  When this was done, the inspector proceeded, in a very pompous and magisterial manner, to
      question the prisoner.  
  "What is your name, young man?"  
  "Richard Markham."  
  "Oh! Richard Markham. Put that down, Crisp. Where do you live?"  
  "At Markham Place, near Holloway."  
  "Put that down, Crisp. Now, do you want to let any of your friends know that you are in
      trouble?"  
  "First tell me of what I am accused, and why I am detained."  
  "You are accused of being in an unlawful house for an unlawful purpose—namely, gambling; and
      a suicide has been committed there, they say. You will be wanted afore the coroner as well as
      the magistrate."  
  "Can I be released until to-morrow by giving security for my appearance?"  
  "No—I can't part with you. It is said that it is suicide—and I believe it: still it might be
      murder. But you seem a respectable young gentleman, and so you sha'nt be locked up in a cell
      all night. You may sit here by the fire, if you'll be quiet."  
  "I am at least obliged to you for this courtesy. But can you give me any idea of the extent
      of the penalty to which I am liable? I did not gamble myself—I merely accompanied——"  
  "You need'nt criminate anybody, you know," interrupted the Inspector. "The Magistrate will
      fine you a few pounds, and that will be all."  
  "Then I should prefer not to acquaint my friends with my position," said Markham, "since I
      can release myself from my present difficulty without their assistance."  
  Reassured by this conviction, though still strangely excited by the appalling scene which he
      had witnessed, Richard seated himself by the fire, and soon fell into conversation with the
      policemen. These men could talk of nothing but themselves or their pursuits: they appeared to
      live in a world of policeism; all their ideas were circumscribed to station-houses,
      magistrates' offices, prisons, and criminal courts of justice. Their discourse was moreover
      garnished with the slang terms of thieves; they could not utter a sentence without
      interpolating a swell-mob phrase or a Newgate jest. They seemed to be so familiar with crime
      (though not criminal themselves) that they could not devote a moment to the contemplation of
      virtue: they only conversed about persons who were "in trouble," but never condescended to
      lavish a thought to those who were out of it.  
  "Crankey Jem has done it brown at last, has'nt he?" said Crisp.  
  "He has indeed," replied the inspector. "But what could he have done with all the swag?"  target="#ENG18460_N001" [1]    
  "Oh! he's fadded that safe enough," observed the
      officer in plain clothes. "My eye! What a slap-up lily benjamin  target="#ENG18460_N003" [3]   he had on when he was nabbed."  
  "Yes—and sich a swell bandanna fogle in the
       gropus."  target="#ENG18460_N005" [5]    
  "He had'nt any ready tin though; for he wanted to peel, and put the white-poodle up the spout for a
      drop of max."  target="#ENG18460_N008" [8]    
  "And because you would'nt let him he doubled you up with a wallop in your
       dumpling-depot,  target="#ENG18460_N009" [9]   did'nt he?"  
  "Yes—but I bruised his canister  target="#ENG18460_N010" [10]   for him though."  
  "This'll be the third time he's been up afore the beaks  target="#ENG18460_N011" [11]   at the Old Bailey."  
  "Consequently he's sartain sure to be lagged."  target="#ENG18460_N012" [12]    
  "Ah! it must be a clever nob in the fur trade  target="#ENG18460_N013" [13]   who'll
      get him off."  
  "Well—talking makes me thirsty," said Crisp. "I wish I'd someot to sluice my ivories  target="#ENG18460_N014" [14]    
  Markham entertained a faint idea that Mr. Crisp was athirst; he accordingly offered to pay
      for anything; which he and his brother policemen chose to drink.  
  The officer in plain clothes was commissioned to procure some "heavy-wet"—  alias  
      porter; and even the pompous, and magisterial inspector condescended to take what he called "a
      drain," but which in reality appeared to be something more than a pint.  
  The harmony was disturbed by the entrance of a constable dragging in a poor ragged,
      half-starved, and emaciated lad, without shoes or stockings.  
  "What's the charge?" demanded the inspector.  
  "A rogue and vagabond," answered the constable.  
  "Oh! very well: put that down, Crisp. How do you know?"  
  "Because he's wandering about and hasn't no where to go to, and no friends to refer to and I
      saw him begging."  
  "Very good; put that down, Crisp. And I suppose he's without food and hungry?"  
  "I have not tasted food—" began the poor wretch, who stood shivering at the bar.  
  "Come, no lies," ejaculated the inspector.  
  "No lies!" echoed the constable, giving the poor wretch a tremendous shake.  
  "Have you put it all down, Crisp?"  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "Well, let him have a bit of bread, and lock him up. He'll get three months of it on the
      stepper to-morrow."  
  The poor creature was supplied with a cubic inch of stale bread, and then thrust into a
      filthy cell.  
  "What do you think that unfortunate creature will be done to?" enquired Markham.  
  "Three months on the stepper—the treadmill, to be sure."  
  "But what for?"  
  "Why, for a rogue and vagabond."  
  "A vagabond he may be," said Markham, "because he has no home to go to; but how do you know
      he is a rogue?"  
  "Why—he was found begging, wasn't he?"  
  "And does that make a man a rogue?"  
  "Certainly it do—in the eye of the law."  
  "Ah! and that eye can see without spectacles too," added Mr. Crisp with a laugh.  
  Markham was reflecting profoundly upon the law's definitions of   rogue   and
         vagabond  , when another constable entered, leading in an elderly man, belonging to
      the humbler class, but very cleanly in appearance.  
  "Well, what's the charge?" demanded the inspector.  
  "This fellow will come upon my beat with his apple-cart, and I can't keep him off. So I've
      sent his cart to the Green Yard, and brought him here."  
  "Please, sir," said the poor fellow, wiping away a tear from his eye, "I endeavour to earn
      an honest living by selling a little fruit in the streets. I have a wife and seven children to
      support, and I only stayed out so long to-night because I had had a bad day of it, and the
      money is so much wanted at home—it is indeed, sir! I do hope you'll let me go, sir: my poor
      wife will be ready to break her heart when she finds that I don't come home; and my eldest boy
      always sits up for me. Poor little fellow! he will cry so if he don't kiss   Father  
      before he goes to bed."  
  There was something profoundly touching in this poor man's manner and language; and Markham
      felt inclined to interfere in his behalf. He, however, remembered that he was only allowed to
      sit in that room by suffrance, and that he was at the mercy of the caprice of ignorant,
      tyrannical, and hard-hearted men: he accordingly held his tongue.  
  "Come, Crisp—have you got that down?" said the inspector.  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "Well, let the man be locked up: the magistrate must decide in the morning."  
  And the poor fellow, in spite of his remonstrances, was removed to a cell.  
  "I could not exactly understand what this new prisoner has done," said Markham.  
  "Obstructed the way and created a nuisance," replied the inspector pompously.  
  "But he is endeavouring to earn his bread honestly, I think; and the road is open to every
      one."  
  "Oh! no such thing. Those little carts frighten the horses in the great folks' carriages,
      and can't be allowed. He must have a month of it—he's been warned several times, and is
      incorrigible. I'll tell the magistrate so."  
  "And what will become of his family?"  
  "Family! why, go to the workhouse, to be sure!" Presently a third constable made his
      appearance, accompanied by a poor miserable-looking woman and three small children—all
      wretchedly clad and careworn.  
  "What's the charge now?"  
  "Charge from the workus. This here o'oman was admitted to-night to the Union with them three
      children; and 'cos the master ordered her to be separated from her children, she kicked up
      hell's delight. So the master turned 'em all out together, called me up, and give 'em in
      charge."  
  "Put that down, Crisp."  
  "Yes—and it is true too," sobbed the poor woman. "I am not ashamed to own that I love my
      children; and up to this blessed hour they have never been separated from me. It would break
      their poor little hearts to be torn away from me—that it would, God bless them! I love them
      all, poor—miserable as I am!"  
  A flood of tears drowned the voice of this wretched mother.  
  "Inspector," said Markham, touched to the quick by this affecting scene, "you will allow
      me——"  
  "Silence, young man. It's a charge from the workus, and the workus is paramount."  
  "So it appears, indeed!" cried Richard bitterly.  
  "Silence, I say. Don't interfere, there's a good lad. Crisp, have you got it all down?"  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "Lock 'em up, then."  
  "At least we shall be together!" exclaimed the unfortunate mother, to whom the three little
      children clung with all the tenacity of sincere affection.  
  An hour elapsed, when another policeman entered, bringing in a man dressed as an ostler, and
      whose face was all covered with blood.  
  "Well—what now?"  
  "Fighting in the   Blue Dragon  : the landlord turned him out, and so I took him
      up."  
  "Put that down, Crisp. What's your name, my fine fellow?"  
  "John Snoggles."  
  "Put that down, Crisp. He's a nice bird, isn't he, Mr. Markham?" added the inspector.  
  "Markham!" ejaculated the new prisoner.  
  "Yes—that is my name," said Richard: "do you know me?"  
   of a gentleman as is in the service of a Mr. Markham. I left the   Servants'
       Arms   at twelve precisely, and walked straight down to this here wicinity—I ain't been
      more than half an hour coming—when I gets into a row——"  
  "Well, well," said Richard, somewhat impatiently "and what is the name of the person with
      whom you have passed the evening?"  
  "With several gentlemen—but the one I named was Vittingham."  
  "Whittingham! he is my butler. Poor fellow! how anxious he will be about me."  
  "He's too drunk to be anxious," said Snoggles drily: "I was the on'y one as come away
      sober."  
  "I tell you what he could do, if you like," observed the inspector, who now began to
      entertain an idea of Markham's standing in society by the mention of the word   butler  :
      "there is no one here to make any charge against the fellow—the constable will withdraw it,
      and he can take a note home for you."  
  "A thousand thanks!" ejaculated Markham. "But you intimated that he was tipsy?"  
  "He is certainly elevated," answered Snoggles.  
  "Well, can you be at my house to-morrow morning by six or seven o'clock?"  
  "Of course I can, sir."  
  "I need not write: you can say that you have seen me, and that I shall be home in the course
      of the day. Do not mention where I am: I would not have him coming here to seek me."  
  Markham slipped half a sovereign into the hands of Snoggles, who took his departure with a
      faithful promise to execute the commission entrusted to him, and not a little pleased at
      having so pleasantly escaped a night in the station-house.  
  It was now past one o'clock; and Markham, feeling rather drowsy, lay down to slumber for a
      few hours upon a bench, wrapped up in Mr. Crisp's police-coat.  
  
  CHAPTER XV. THE POLICE-OFFICE.  
  THE morning was rainy, cold, and lowering.  
  Markham awoke unrefreshed by his sleep, which had been haunted by the ghost of the young
      officer who had committed suicide at the Hell. He shivered and felt nervous; as if under the
      impulse of some impending danger whose nature he could not altogether define. By the good
      offices of Crisp he obtained the means of washing himself and arranging his toilette previous
      to an appearance at the police-court; and the same intervention procured him a good breakfast.
      As he, however, could not eat a morsel, Mr. Crisp very kindly and considerately devoured it
      all for him.  
  At about half-past nine o'clock the various constables connected with the charges entered in
      the police-sheet, arrived at the station-house for the purpose of conducting their prisoners
      to the Police-court. All those persons who were charged with felony were handcuffed; but of
      this class the most knowing contrived to bring their hands beneath their garments in some way
      or other, and thus conceal the symbol of ignominy as they passed through the streets.  
  Richard was astonished at the number of women who were charged with intoxication and
      disorderly conduct; and the chivalrous admiration of the whole sex which he felt, and which is
      so natural to youth, was considerably diminished by the hardened appearance and revolting
      language of these females.  
  Markham and the constable who had arrested him proceeded in a cab together to the
      police-office in Marlborough Street. Upon reaching that establishment, the officer said, "The
      Magistrate will hear the   drunk   and   assault   charges first; so it may be an
      hour or more before your business will come on. I ought by rights to lock you up; but if you
      like, we can stay together in the public-house there; and one of my partners will let us know
      when the case is coming on."  
  This arrangement was very acceptable to Richard; and to the nearest public-house did he and
      the constable accordingly adjourn. For this handsome accommodation all that he had to pay was
      half-a-guinea to the officer, besides liquidating the score for as much liquor as the said
      officer and every one of his "partners" who happened to drop in, could consume.  
  For the present we must request the reader to accompany us to the interior of the
      police-office.  
  In a small, low, badly-lighted room, sate an elderly gentleman at a desk. This was the
      Magistrate. Near him was the clerk, whom the worthy functionary consulted so often that it
      almost seemed as if this clerk were a peripatetic law-manual or text-book. In front of the
      desk were the bar and the dock; and the space between them and the door was filled with
      policemen and the friends of those "who had got into trouble."  
  The first charge was called. A man dressed in the garb of a common labourer was accused of
      being drunk and incapable of taking care of himself. The Magistrate put on a most awfully
      severe and frowning countenance, and said in a gruff tone, "Well, my man, what do you say to
      this charge?"  
  "Please your worship," observed the prisoner, scratching his head, "I am out of work, and my
      wife has pawned all our little bits of things for food for the children, and yesterday morning
      I was forced to go out to look for work without any breakfast. There was but a little bread
      left, and that I would not touch for all the world. Well, your worship, I was fortunate enough
      to get the promise of some work for Monday; and meeting a friend, he asked me to have a glass.
      Now beer upon an empty stomach, your worship——"  
  The Magistrate, who had been reading a newspaper during this defence, now lifted up his
      head, and exclaimed, "Well, you do'nt deny the charge: you are fined five shillings. Call the
      next case."  
  "But your worship——"  
  "Call the next case."  
  The poor fellow was dragged away from the bar by two huge policemen; and an elegantly
      dressed person of about twenty-six years of age was introduced to the notice of the
      magistrate.  
  "What is your name?" enquired the clerk.  
  "Name! Oh—John Jenkins," was the reply, delivered in a flippant and free-and-easy
      manner.  
  The Clerk and the Magistrate whispered together.  
  A constable then stood forward, and stated the charge. The prisoner at the bar had turned
      out of a flash tavern in the Haymarket at one in the morning, and commenced crowing like a
      cock, and ringing at front-door bells, and playing all imaginable kinds of antics. When the
      constable interfered, the gentleman knocked him down; and had not another policeman come up to
      the spot at the moment, the said gentleman never would have been taken into custody.  
   who gave evidence in this case, with great severity; and then, turning with a
      bland smile to the prisoner, who was surveying the clerk through his eye glass in as
      independent a manner as if he were lounging over the front of his box at the opera, the worthy
      functionary said in a tone of gentle entreaty, "Now really we have reason to suspect that John
      Jenkins is   not   your name. In fact, my lord, we know you."  
  "Well, then," exclaimed the prisoner, turning his eye-glass from the clerk upon the
      magistrate, "chalk me up as Lord Plymouth, since you are down upon me in this way."  
  "My lord—my lord," said the Magistrate, with parental urbanity of manner, "these little
      freaks of yours are really not creditable: upon my honour they are not. I sit here to
      administer justice to the rich as well as to the poor——"  
  "Oh! you do, do you?" cried the nobleman. "Now I tell you what it is—if you dare talk any of
      your nonsense about prisons and houses of correction to me, I'll not stand it. You know as
      well as I do that whenever a barrister is to be appointed magistrate, the Home Secretary sends
      for him and tells him to mind his P's and Q's towards the aristocracy. So none of your
      nonsense; but be quick and let me off with the usual fine."  
  "My lord," ejaculated the Magistrate, glancing with consternation from the prisoner to the
      clerk, and from the clerk to the prisoner; "did I not say that I sate here to administer equal
      justice to the rich and the poor? The fine for drunkenness is five shillings, my lord—and in
      that sum I fine you. As for the assault upon the policeman, I give you leave to speak to him
      outside."  
  The nobleman demanded change for a ten pound note, and threw the five shillings in a
      contemptuous and insolent manner towards the Clerk, who thanked his lordship as if he had just
      received an especial favour. The assault was easily settled   outside  ; and the nobleman
      drove away in an elegant cab, just as the wife of the poor labourer departed in tears from her
      husband's cell for the purpose of pledging every remaining article of clothing that could
      possibly be dispensed with, to raise the five shillings wherewith to procure his
      liberation.  
  Several other cases of intoxication, disorderly conduct, and "obstruction of the police in
      the exercise of their duty"—which last embraced the veriest trifles as well as the most daring
      attempts at rescue—were then disposed of. In all instances the constables endeavoured to
      exaggerate the conduct of the accused, and never once attempted to palliate it; and as the
      Magistrate seemed to place implicit confidence in every word the police uttered (although one
      or two cases of gross perjury were proved against them), convictions were much more frequent
      than acquittals.  
  The cases of the poor starving emaciated beggar, the apple-cart man, and the affectionate
      mother, who had all three so powerfully excited Markham's attention at the station-house, were
      called on one after another consecutively. Fortunately the inspector was not present at the
      time to use his influence against the two first, and the master of the workhouse did not
      appear to press the charge against the last. They were all three accordingly discharged, with
      a severe admonition—the first against begging and being houseless—the second against earning
      an honest livelihood by selling fruit in the streets—and the third against clamouring in a
      workhouse for the mere trifle of being separated from her children.  
  As these three individuals emerged from the police-office, they were accosted by Mr. Crisp,
      who informed them that they were "wanted" by a gentleman at a public-house in the
      neighbourhood. Thither did the trio of unfortunates, accompanied by the poor woman's children,
      proceed; and great was their surprise when Mr. Crisp officiously introduced them into a
      private room which Markham had engaged.  
  Richard and the police-officer in whose charge he remained, were there; and the moment the
      poor creatures were shown in, they were accosted by that young man whose ingenuous countenance
      inspired them with confidence and hope.  
  "My good friends," said he, "I was in the station-house last night when you arrived; and
      your sad tales touched me to the quick. Now, with regard to you, my poor lad," he continued,
      addressing himself to the   rogue and vagabond  , "what prospect have you before you? In
      what way could a friend aid you?"  
  "My brother, sir, is well off, and would assist me," replied the poor creature, "if I could
      but get to him. He lives in Edinburgh, and is well to do as a wheelwright."  
  "Here are two guineas for you, my friend," said Richard. "They will take you home; and then
      may your reception be as favourable as you seem to think. There—I do not want you to thank me:
      go—and commence your journey at once."  
  The poor fellow pressed Markham's hand with the most enthusiastic gratitude, and took his
      departure with tears in his eyes and gladness in his heart.  
  "And now, my good man," said Richard to the owner of the apple-cart, "what do you propose to
      do?"  
  "To speak the truth, sir, I don't know. The police seem determined that I shan't earn an
      honest livelihood: and as I am equally resolved not to see my children starve before me, I
      have nothing left to do but to become a thief. I shan't be the first whom the police have
      driven to that last resource in this city."  
  "You speak bitterly," said Markham.  
  "Yes—because I tell the truth, sir. My cart is to be returned to me; but of what use is it,
      or the stock that is in it, since I don't dare go about to sell fruit?"  
  "Could you not open a little shop?"  
  "Ah! sir—that requires money!"  
  "How much?"  
  "A matter of four or five pounds, sir," replied the man; "and where could a poor devil like
      me——"  
  "I will give you five pounds for the purpose;" interrupted Markham; and taking from his
      pocket-book a bank note, he handed it to the poor man.  
  We will not attempt to depict his gratitude: words would completely fail to convey an idea
      of the exuberant joy which filled the heart of that good and affectionate father, who would
      rather have become a thief than seen his children starve!  
  "And now, my good woman, what can I do for you?" said Markham, turning to the third object
      of his charity. "How in the name of heaven, came you reduced, with three children, to such a
      state of want and destitution?"  
  "My husband, sir, is in prison," answered the poor creature, bursting into tears, while her
      children clung the more closely around her.  
  "In prison! and for what crime?"  
  "Oh! crime, sir—it is only a crime in the eye of the law, but not in the eye of either man
      or heaven."  
   offence of which the law alone takes cognisance, and which is not reprehensible
      in the eye of God?"  
  "On the contrary, sir—God has given us for our general use and benefit the very thing which
      the law has forbidden us to take."  
  "This is trifling!" exclaimed Richard impatiently. "Can you, whom I behold so affectionate
      to your children, be hardened in guilt?"  
  "Do not think so, sir! My husband was a hard working man—never spent an hour at the
      public-house—never deprived his family of a farthing of his wages. He was a pattern to all
      married men—and his pride was to see his children well-dressed and happy. Alas, sir—we were
      too happy not to meet with some sad reverse! My husband in an evil hour went out shooting one
      afternoon, when there was a holiday at the factory where he worked; and he killed a hare upon
      a nobleman's grounds near Richmond. He was taken up and tried for poaching, and was sentenced
      to a year's imprisonment with hard labour! This term expires in six weeks; but in the
      meantime—O God! what have we not suffered!"  
  "Ah! forgive me," ejaculated Markham, deeply touched by this recital: "I spoke harshly to
      you, because I did not remember that the law could be guilty of a deed of such inhuman
      atrocity. And yet I have heard of many—many such cases ere now! Merciful heavens! is it
      possible that the law, which with the right hand protects the privileges of the aristocracy,
      can with the left plunge whole families into despair!"  
  "Alas! it is too true!" responded the poor woman, pointing towards her pale and shivering
      offspring.  
  "Well—cheer up—your husband will be restored to you in six weeks," said Markham. "In the
      meantime here is wherewith to provide for your family."  
  Another five-pound note was taken from the pocket-book, and transferred to the hand of the
      poor but tender-hearted mother. The children clung to Richard's knees, and poured forth their
      gratitude in tears: their parent loaded him with blessings which came from the very bottom of
      her heart, and called him the saviour of herself and famished little ones. Never until that
      day had Richard so entirely appreciated the luxury of possessing wealth!  
  Scarcely was this last matter disposed of, when information arrived that Markham's case
      would be heard in about ten minutes. To the police-court did he and the constable who had
      charge of him, proceed accordingly; and in due time the young man found himself standing at
      the bar in the presence of a magistrate.  
  The usual questions were put relative to name, age, and residence, to all of which Richard
      answered in a candid and respectful manner. The constable then stated the nature of the
      charge, with which the reader is already acquainted. Evidence was also gone into to show that
      the officer, whose death had led to the irruption into the gambling-house on the part of the
      police, had died by his own hand, and not in consequence of any violence. This point was
      sufficiently proved by a medical man.  
  Markham, in his defence, stated he had accompanied some friends, whose names he declined
      mentioning, to the gaming-house on the preceding evening; that he had not played himself, nor
      had he intended to play; and that he had been led into the establishment without previously
      being acquainted with the exact nature of the place he was about to visit.  
  The Magistrate remonstrated with him upon the impropriety of being seen in such houses, and
      inflicted a fine of five pounds, which was of course immediately paid.  
  As he was leaving the police-court, Markham was informed by a beadle who accosted him, that
      his presence would be required at the gambling-house that same afternoon, at four o'clock, to
      give evidence at the coroner's inquest concerning the means by which the deceased officer came
      by his death.  
  
  CHAPTER XVI. THE BEGINNING OF MISFORTUNES.  
  AT eight o'clock in the morning after the scene at the Hell, and while Richard was still in
      the custody of the police, Sir Rupert Harborough and the Honourable Arthur Chichester were
      hastening, in a handsome cabriolet, belonging to the former, to Markham Place.  
  The conversation of these gentlemen during the drive will tend to throw some light upon one
      or two preceding incidents that may have appeared a little mysterious to the reader.  
  "I wonder what became of him last night," said Chichester.  
  "Upon my honour at the moment I did not care," returned the baronet.  
  "Nor I either. I was only intent upon getting off myself."  
  "He will not be pleased at our having left him in that unceremonious manner."  
  "Oh! trust to me—any explanation will do. He is so exceedingly green."  
  "And so marvellously particular in his conduct. If it had not been for us, he would have
      remained quite a saint."  
  "I am not afraid," observed Chichester, "of being able to manage him and of turning him to
      immense advantage in our plans. But that vulgar beast Talbot will most certainly spoil all.
      Even the idea of the fellow's wealth and charities will not always induce Markham to put up
      with his vulgarities. Besides, the wretch has such execrable bad taste. Last evening, for
      instance, when I casually dropped a neat little lie about the soup at the King of Prussia's
      table, Talbot instantly paraded the Duke of Lambeth's pea-soup. Only fancy a Duke and pea-soup
      united together!"  
  "And then his dog's nose, and sore feet, and boiled tripe," said the baronet. "After all the
      drilling we gave him in the first instance, when he stipulated upon associating with us in
      order to see how we worked the thing, he is still incorrigible. Then, when I think of all the
      money I have already laid out in buying the materials—in getting the proper paper—and in
      keeping him in feather all the time he was at work, my blood boils to see that he hangs like a
      millstone round our necks, and threatens by his vulgarity to spoil all."  
  "But what could we do?" cried Chichester. "You told me in the first instance to find an
      engraver on whom we could rely; and I was compelled to enlist the fellow Pocock in our cause.
      He was the very man, so far as knowledge went, having been employed all his life in working
      for Bankers. But his atrocious vulgarity is his bane; and even his aristocratic name of Talbot
      which I made him assume, does not help him to pass himself off as a gentleman. It was a pity
      he could not listen to reason and take the sum of ready money down, which you offered him in
      the first instance. But, no—he must needs cry   thirds  , and insist upon going about
      with us to see fair play."  
    
  "Yes. Even the very first night that he ever saw Markham," continued Chichester, "his
      greediness would have induced him to risk the ruin of everything by winning a few paltry
      pounds of the young fellow at Diana's lodgings. But I d—d soon stopped   that  . I didn't
      even want to take the twenty pounds yesterday, which Markham offered for the poor family
      concerning whom I invented so capital a story."  
  "No—it is not a few pounds that will do us any good, or remunerate me for my large outlay,"
      said the baronet. "We want thousands—and this Markham is the very instrument we require. The
      first trial was made yesterday, and succeeded admirably. The note has actually been changed at
      a banker's: no one can expect a better test than that. Now if this Talbot is to ruin us with
      Markham—the very person we want—the most excellent medium we could require—himself being above
      all suspicion, and entertaining no suspicion——"  
  "It would be enough to break one's heart," added Chichester.  
  "Besides, my creditors are so clamorous, settle with them I must," continued the baronet.
      "And then Diana costs me a fortune. I must get rid of her without delay; for I expect that she
      is getting sentimental on this youth, and will not interest herself in our affair for fear of
      letting him into a scrape."  
  "Why, it is very certain," observed Chichester, "that according to the admirable way in
      which we have arranged our plans, if an explosion took place, we could not possibly be
      implicated. However—we must make haste and work London, and then off to Paris. We might get
      rid of four or five thousand pounds worth amongst the money-changers in the Palais-Royal. Then
      off to Germany in due rotation—Italy next—touch at Spain—and home to England."  
  "Upon my honour, it is a noble scheme—a grand, a princely scheme!" cried the baronet, elated
      with the idea. "My God! if it were spoilt in its infancy by any fault of ours or our
      associates!"  
  "And Talbot is such a drunken beast, that we can scarcely rely upon him," said Chichester.
      "He will one day commit himself and us too: the fellow does not know how to get tipsy like a
      gentleman."  
  "We will tell him the candid truth and see what he says," pursued the baronet "When he finds
      that we are determined not to tolerate him with us, and that we will quash the whole thing at
      once if he insists upon remaining, he must yield. There was that young Walter Sydney who
      seemed at first to have taken a fancy to Diana. I thought of making use of him too;—but he
      never called again after that drunken display of Mr. Talbot's. He was evidently disgusted with
      him for his conduct, and with us for associating with him."  
  "Well," said Chichester, "let us resolve, then, to have an explanation with Talbot in the
      sense you have mentioned; and you must also speak seriously to Diana and get her to make use
      of young Markham."  
  "And if she will not," added the baronet, "I shall get rid of her without delay. What is the
      use of having an expensive mistress, unless you can use her either as a   blind   or a
         plant  ?"  
  The delectable conversation terminated here, because those who had carried it on, were now
      arrived at their destination.  
  The baronet's tiger knocked at the front door, and Mr. Whittingham speedily made his
      appearance.  
  "Is your master at home?" demanded Chichester.  
  "No sir; he has not domesticated himself in his own abode since he went out shortly after
      you yesterday. But a person of my acquaintance—a man of perfect credibleness—has just come to
      ensure me that my young master will be here again in the currency of the day."  
  "Where did this person see your master?" enquired Chichester, struck by the absence of
      Markham the entire night.  
  "His respondencies is evasive and dissatisfactory," said Whittingham.  
  "This is very remarkable!" ejaculated Chichester: then, after a pause, he added, "But we
      will await Mr. Markham's return; and I will just see this man and interrogate him
       alone—  alone  , do you hear, Whittingham."  
  "I hear, sir, because my accoustic propensities is good. I will send this person to you into
      the library."  
  Mr. Chichester alighted from the vehicle and hastened to the library, while the baronet
      repaired to the stables to see that his horse (concerning which he was very particular) was
      properly cared for.  
  Mr. Chichester walked up and down the library, reflecting upon the probable causes of
      Richard's absence. At the moment he fancied that he might have fallen into the hands of the
      police; but then he thought that, had this been the case, Markham would have sent for himself
      or the baronet. He did not imagine that the noble nature of the young man whom he was
      conducting headlong to his ruin, would scorn to take any steps calculated to compromise his
      friends.  
  The door of the library opened, and a man entered.  
  "What? John!" ejaculated Mr. Chichester, turning very pale and manifesting much
      confusion.  
  "Mr. Winchester!" cried Snoggles—for it was he.  
  "Hush, my good fellow—don't say a word!" said Chichester, recovering his presence of mind.
      "I am really glad to see you—I have often thought of you since that unpleasant affair. I hope
      it put you to no inconvenience. At all events, I will make matters all right now."  
  "Better late than never," said Snoggles.  
  "Well—and you must promise me faithfully not to mention this affair to any one, and I will
      always stand your friend. And, remember—my name is Chichester   now  —not Winchester.
      Pray do not forget that."  
  "No—no: I'm fly enough—I'm down to trap," replied Snoggles, with a leer of insolent
      familiarity.  
  "Here is a twenty-pound note—that will cover all your losses, and recompense you into the
      bargain."  
  "That'll do."  
  "It would be better that you should not say that you ever knew me before."  
  "Just as you like."  
  "I prefer that course. But now to another point. Where did you see Mr. Richard Markham?"  
  "At the station-house, in —— street."  
  "The station-house! And for what?"  
  "Ah! there you beat me. I can't say! All that I know is that he gave me half-a-sovereign to
      come and tell his old butler this morning that he should be home in the course of the
      day."  
  "And that is all you know?"  
  "Everything."  
  "Now can I rely upon you in respect to keeping the other matter secret?" demanded
      Chichester.  
  "I have already told you so," answered Snoggles.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Snoggles withdrew and Mr. Chichester was immediately afterwards joined by the baronet.  
  "Markham is at the station-house in —— street."  
  "The deuce he is! and for what?"  
  "I cannot learn. Do you not think it is odd that he did not send for either of us?"  
  "Yes. We will return to town this moment," said the baronet, "and send some one unknown to
      him to hear the case at the police-office. We shall then learn whether anything concerning the
      notes transpires, and what to say to him when we see him."  
  "Yes: there is not a moment to lose," returned Chichester.  
  The cabriolet was brought round to the door again in a few minutes, during which interval
      Chichester assured Whittingham that he had learned nothing concerning his master, and that he
      and the baronet were only returning to town for the purpose of looking after him.  
  As soon as the vehicle was out of sight, Mr. Whittingham returned in a disconsolate manner
      to his pantry, where Mr. Snoggles was occupied with a cold pasty and a jug of good old
      ale.  
  "Well, I've learnt someot to-day, I have," observed Snoggles, who could not keep a secret
      for the life of him.  
  "What's that?" demanded Whittingham.  
  "Why that Winchester is Chichester, and Chichester is Winchester."  
  "They are two irrelevant cities," observed the butler; "and not by no manner of means
      indentical."  
  "The cities is different, but the men is the same," said Snoggles.  
  "I can't apprehend your meaning."  
  "Well—I will speak plain. Did you hear me tell Suggett the story about my old master, last
      night at the   Servants' Arms  ?"  
  "No—I was engaged in a colloquial discourse at the time."  
  "Then I will tell you the adventur' over agin;"—and Mr. Snoggles related the incident
      accordingly.  
   delivered himself of many impressive observations upon the affair, but which we
      shall not be cruel enough to inflict upon our readers.  
  It was about half-past twelve o'clock when Richard returned home. His countenance was pale
      and anxious; and he vainly endeavoured to smile as he encountered his faithful old
      dependant.  
  "Ah! Master Richard, I was sadly afraid that you had fallen into some trepidation!"  
  "A very unpleasant adventure, Whittingham—which I will relate to you another time—kept me
      away from home. I was with Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr. Chichester——"  
  "Mr. Chichester ain't no good, sir," interrupted the butler emphatically.  
  "What do you mean, Whittingham?"  
  "I mean exactly what I say, Master Richard,—and nothing more nor less. Both the baronet and
      Mr. Chichester have been here this morning."  
  Then, with a considerable amount of circumlocution and elaborate comment, the butler related
      the conduct of Chichester towards Snoggles, and their accidental meeting that morning.  
  "This is very extraordinary," said Richard, musing.  
  "I can't say I ever regularly admired this Mr. Chichester," observed Whittingham. "He seems
      too dashing, too out-and-out, and too—too—circumwenting in his discourse, to be anythink
      exceeding and excessive good. Now I like the baronet much better; he isn't so formiliar in his
      manners. Whenever he speaks to me he always says '  Mr. Whittingham  ;' but Mr.
      Chichester calls me plain '  Whittingham  .' As for that wulgar fellow Talbot, who has
      called here once or twice, he slaps me on the shoulder, and bawls out, '  Well, Whittingham,
       my tulip, how are you?  ' Now, you know, Master Richard, it's not conformant to perceived
      notions to call a butler a tulip."  
  "I have been deceived in my acquaintances—no doubt I have been deceived," said Richard,
      musing audibly, and pacing the library, with agitated steps. "There is something suspicious in
      the connexion of that man Talbot—however rich he may be—with so elegant a gentleman as the
      baronet;—then this conduct of Chichester's towards his servant—their taking me to a common
      gambling-house—their deserting me in the moment of need,—yes, I have been deceived! And then,
      Diana—I ought never more to see her: her influence, her fascination are too dangerous!"  
  "A gambling-house!" ejaculated Whittingham, whose ears caught fragments of these
      reflections.  
  "My old friend," said Richard, turning suddenly towards the butler, "I am afraid I have been
      enticed—inveigled into society which is not creditable to me or my position. I will repair my
      fault. Mr. Monroe, my guardian, advised me some weeks ago to indulge in a tour upon the
      continent: I will avail myself of this permission. At four o'clock I have an appointment—a
      pressing appointment to keep in town: by seven at latest I shall return. Have a post-chaise at
      the door and all things in readiness: we will proceed to Dover to-night. You alone shall
      accompany me."  
  "Let's do it, sir—let's do it," exclaimed the faithful old dependant: "it will separate you
      from them flash fellows which lead young men into scrapes, and from them wulgar persons which
      call butlers tulips."  
  Whittingham retired to make the preparations for the contemplated journey, and Richard
      seated himself at the table to write a couple of letters.  
  The first was to Mrs. Arlington, and ran thus:—  
  
  "Circumstances of a very peculiar nature, and which I cannot at present explain to you,
       compel me to quit London thus abruptly. I hope you will not imagine that I leave your
       agreeable society without many regrets. We shall probably meet again, when I may perhaps
       confide to you the motives of this sudden departure; and you will then understand that I
       could not have remained in London another minute with safety to myself. I scarcely know what
       I write—I am so agitated and uneasy. Pray excuse this scrawl.  
  "RICHARD MARKHAM."  
  
  The second letter was to Mr. Monroe, and was couched in the following terms:—  
  
  "You will be surprised, my dear sir, to find that I am immediately about to avail myself of
       your kind recommendation and permission to visit the continent. I conceive it to be my
       duty—in consequence of rumours or reports which may shortly reach your ears concerning me—to
       inform you that I have this moment only awoke to the fearful perils of the career in which I
       have for same weeks past been blindly hurrying along, till at length yesterday——: but I dare
       not write any more. I am penitent—deeply penitent: let this statement induce you to defend
       and protect my reputation,  
  "Ever your sincerely obliged,  
   "R. MARKHAM."  
  
  Having hastily folded, addressed, and sealed these letters, Markham hurried up to his
      bed-room to select certain articles of clothing and other necessaries which he should require
      upon his journey.  
  He was interrupted in the middle of this occupation, by the entrance of Whittingham, who
      came to announce that two persons of somewhat strange and suspicious appearance desired an
      immediate interview with him.  
  Scarcely was this message delivered, when the two men, who had followed Whittingham
      up-stairs, walked very unceremoniously into the bed-room.  
  "This is Richard Markham, 'spose?" said one, advancing towards the young man.  
  "Yes—my name is Markham: but what means this insolent and unpardonable intrusion?"  
  "Intrusion indeed!" repeated the foremost of the ill-looking strangers. "However, not to
      keep you waiting, my young friend, I must inform you that me and this man here are officers;
      and we've a warrant to take you."  
  "A warrant!" ejaculated both Richard and Whittingham at the same moment.  
  "Come, come, now—I dare say you haven't been without your misgivings since yesterday;—but if
      young gen'lemen will play such pranks, why, they must expect some time or another to be
      wanted—that's all!"  
  "But what have I done?" demanded Richard. "There must be some mistake. I cannot be the
      person whom you require."  
  "Did you not call at a certain bankers' in the City yesterday?" demanded the officer.  
  "Certainly—I had some money to receive, which Mr. Monroe my guardian had paid into their
      hands for my use."  
  "And you changed a five hundred pound note? The clerk did it for your accommodation."  
  "I do not deny it: I required change. But how is all this connected with your visit?"  
  "That five hundred pound note was a forgery!"  
  "A forgery! Impossible!" cried Richard.  
  "A forgery!" said Whittingham: "this is really impudence of too consummating a nature!"  
  "Come, there's no mistake, and all this gammon won't do. Me and my partner came in a
      hackney-coach, which stands at the corner of the lane so if you're ready, we'll be off to Bow
      Street at once."  
   "because I am well aware that I shall not be detained many minutes at the
      magistrate's office."  
  "That's no business of mine," returned the principal officer: then, addressing his
      companion, he said, "Jem, you'll stay here and take a survey of the premises; while I get off
      with the prisoner. You can follow as soon as you've satisfied yourself whether there's any
      evidence upon the premises."  
  It was with great difficulty that Richard over-ruled the desire of Whittingham to accompany
      him; but at length the faithful old man was induced to comprehend the necessity of staying
      behind, as an officer was about to exercise a strict search throughout the house, and Markham
      did not choose to leave his property to the mercy of a stranger.  
  This point having been settled, Richard took his departure with the officer in whose custody
      he found himself. They entered the hackney-coach, which was waiting at a little distance, and
      immediately proceeded by the shortest cuts towards the chief office in Bow Street.  
  Upon their arrival at that ominous establishment, Richard's pocket-book and purse were taken
      away from him; and he himself was thrust into a cell until the charge at that moment before
      the magistrate was disposed of.  
  Here must we leave him for the present; as during the night which followed his arrest,
      scenes of a terrible nature passed elsewhere.  
  
  CHAPTER XVII. A DEN OF HORRORS.  
  HOWEVER filthy, unhealthy, and repulsive the entire neighbourhood of West Street
      (Smithfield), Field Lane, and Saffron Hill, may appear at the present day, it was far worse
      some years ago. There were then but few cesspools; and scarcely any of those which did exist
      possessed any drains. The knackers' yards of Cow Cross, and the establishments in Castle
      Street where horses' flesh is boiled down to supply food for the dogs and cats of the
      metropolis, send forth now, as they did then, a fœtid and sickening odour which could not
      possibly be borne by a delicate stomach. At the windows of those establishments the bones of
      the animals are hung to bleach, and offend the eye as much as the horrible stench of the flesh
      acts repugnantly to the nerves. Upwards of sixty horses a day are frequently slaughtered in
      each yard; and many of them are in the last stage of disease when sent to their "long home."
      Should there not be a rapid demand for the "meat" on the part of the itinerant purveyors of
      that article for canine and feline favourites, it speedily becomes putrid; and a smell, which
      would alone appear sufficient to create a pestilence, pervades the neighbourhood.  
  As if nothing should be wanting to render that district as filthy and unhealthy as possible,
      water is scarce. There is in this absence of a plentiful supply of that wholesome article, an
      actual apology for dirt. Some of the houses have small back yards, in which the inhabitants
      keep pigs. A short time ago, an infant belonging to a poor widow, who occupied a back room on
      the ground-floor of one of these hovels, died, and was laid upon the sacking of the bed while
      the mother went out to make arrangements for its interment. During her absence a pig entered
      the room from the yard, and feasted upon the dead child's face!  
  In that densely populated neighbourhood that we are describing, hundreds of families each
      live and sleep in one room. When a member of one of these families happens to die, the corpse
      is kept in the close room where the rest still continue to live and sleep. Poverty frequently
      compels the unhappy relatives to keep the body for days—aye, and weeks. Rapid decomposition
      takes place—animal life generates quickly; and in four-and-twenty hours myriads of loathsome
      animalculæ are seen crawling about. The very undertakers' men fall sick at these
      disgusting—these revolting spectacles.  
  The wealthy classes of society are far too ready to reproach the miserable poor for things
      which are really misfortunes and not faults. The habit of whole families sleeping together in
      one room destroys all sense of shame in the daughters: and what guardian then remains for
      their virtue? But, alas! a horrible—an odious crime often results from that poverty which thus
      huddles brothers and sisters, aunts and nephews, all together in one narrow room—the crime of
      incest!  
  When a disease—such as the small-pox or scarlatina—breaks out in one of those crowded
      houses, and in a densely populated neighbourhood, the consequences are frightful: the
      mortality is as rapid as that which follows the footsteps of the plague!  
  These are the fearful mysteries of that hideous district which exists in the very heart of
      this great metropolis. From St. John-street to Saffron Hill—from West-street to Clerkenwell
      Green, is a maze of narrow lanes, choked up with dirt, pestiferous with nauseous odours, and
      swarming with a population that is born, lives, and dies, amidst squalor, penury,
      wretchedness, and crime.  
  Leading out of Holborn, between Field Lane and Ely Place, is Upper Union Court—a narrow lane
      forming a thoroughfare for only foot passengers. The houses in this court are dingy and
      gloomy: the sunbeams never linger long there; and should an Italian-boy pass through the
      place, he does not stop to waste his music upon the inhabitants. The dwellings are chiefly let
      out in lodgings; and through the open windows upon the ground-floor may occasionally be seen
      the half-starved families of mechanics crowding round the scantily-supplied table. A few of
      the lower casements are filled with children's books, pictures of actors and highwaymen
      glaringly coloured, and lucifer-matches, twine, sweet-stuff, cotton, &amp;c. At one door there
      stands an oyster-stall, when the comestible itself is in season: over another hangs a small
      board with a mangle painted upon it. Most of the windows on the ground-floors announce rooms
      to let, or lodgings for single men; and perhaps a notice may be seen better written than the
      rest, that artificial-flower makers are required at that address.  
  It was about nine o'clock in the evening when two little children—a boy of seven and a girl
      of five—walked slowly up this court, hand in hand, and crying bitterly. They were both clothed
      in rags, and had neither shoes nor stockings upon their feet. Every now and then they stopped,
      and the boy turned towards his little sister, and endeavoured to console her with kind words
      and kisses.  
  "Don't cry so, dear," he said: "I'll tell mother that it was all my fault that we couldn't
      bring home any more money; and so she'll beat me worst. Don't cry—there's a good girl—pray
      don't!"  
  And the poor little fellow endeavoured to calm his own grief in order to appease the fears
      of his sister.  
   boy contrived by promises and caresses to hush the violence of his sister's
      grief; and they entered the house, the door of which stood open for the accommodation of the
      lodgers.  
  Hand in hand these poor children ascended the dark and steep staircase, the boy whispering
      consolation in the girl's ears. At length they reached the door of the attic: and there they
      stood for a few moments.  
  "Now, Fanny dear, don't cry, there's a good girl; pray don't now—and I'll buy you some nice
      pears to-morrow with the first halfpenny I get, even if I shouldn't get another, and if mother
      beats me till I'm dead when we come home."  
  The boy kissed his sister once more, and then opened the attic-door.  
  A man in a shabby black coat, and with an immense profusion of hair about his hang-dog
      countenance, was sitting on one side of a good fire, smoking a pipe. A thin, emaciated, but
      vixenish looking woman was arranging some food upon the table for supper. The entire furniture
      of the room consisted of that table, three broken chairs, and a filthy mattress in one
      corner.  
  As soon as the boy opened the door, he seemed for a moment quite surprised to behold that
      man at the fireside: then, in another instant, he clapped his little hands joyously together,
      and exclaimed, "Oh! how glad I am: here's father come home again!"  
  "Father's come home again!" echoed the girl; and the two children rushed up to their parent
      with the most pure—the most unfeigned delight.  
  "Curse your stupidity, you fools," cried the man, brutally repulsing his children; "you've
      nearly broke my pipe."  
  The boy fell back, abashed and dismayed: the little girl burst into tears.  
  "Come, none of this humbug," resumed the man; "let's know what luck you've had to-day, since
      your mother says that she's been obliged to send you out on the tramp since I've been laid up
      for this last six months in the jug."  
  "Yes, and speak out pretty plain, too, Master Harry," said the mother in a shrill menacing
      tone; "and none of your excuses, or you'll know what you have got to expect."  
  "Please, mother," said the boy, slowly taking some halfpence from his pocket, "poor little
      Fanny got all this. I was so cold and hungry I couldn't ask a soul; so if it ain't enough,
      mother, you must beat me—and not poor little Fanny."  
  As the boy uttered these words in a tremulous tone, and with tears trickling down his face,
      he got before his sister, in order to shield her, as it were, from his mother's wrath.  
  "Give it here, you fool!" cried the woman, darting forward, and seizing hold of the boy's
      hand containing the halfpence: then, having hastily glanced over the amount, she exclaimed,
      "You vile young dog! I'll teach you to come home here with your excuses! I'll cut your liver
      out of ye, I will!"  
  "How much has he brought?" demanded the man.  
  "How much! Why not more than enough to pay for the beer," answered the woman indignantly.
      "Eightpence-halfpenny—and that's every farthing! But won't I take it out in his hide, that's
      all?"  
  The woman caught hold of the boy, and dealt him a tremendous blow upon the back with her
      thin bony fist. He fell upon his knees, and begged for mercy. His unnatural parent levelled a
      volley of abuse at him, mingled with oaths and filthy expressions, and then beat him—dashed
      him upon the floor—kicked him—all but stamped upon his poor body as he writhed at her
      feet.  
  His screams were appalling.  
  Then came the turn of the girl. The difference in the years of the children did not cause
      any with regard to their chastisement; but while the unnatural mother dealt her heavy blows
      upon the head, neck, breast, and back of the poor little creature, the boy clasped his hands
      together, exclaiming, "O mother! it was all my fault—pray don't beat little Fanny—pray don't!"
      Then forgetting his own pain, he threw himself before his sister to protect her—a noble act of
      self-devotion in so young a boy, and for which he only received additional punishment.  
  At length the mother sate down exhausted; and the poor lad drew his little sister into a
      corner, and endeavoured to soothe her.  
  The husband of that vile woman had remained unmoved in his seat, quietly smoking his pipe,
      while this horrible scene took place; and if he did not actually enjoy it, he was very far
      from disapproving of it.  
  "There," said the woman, gasping for breath, "that'll teach them to mind how they come home
      another time with less than eighteenpence in their pockets. One would actually think it was
      the people's fault, and not the children's: but it ain't—for people grows more charitable
      every day. The more humbug, the more charity."  
  "Right enough there," growled the man. "A reg'lar knowing beggar can make his five bob a
      day. He can walk through a matter of sixty streets; and in each street he can get a penny.
      He's sure o' that. Well, there's his five bob."  
  "To be sure," cried the woman: "and therefore such nice-looking little children as our'n
      couldn't help getting eighteen-pence if they was to try, the lazy vagabonds! What would ha'
      become of me all the time that you was in the Jug this last bout, if they hadn't have worked
      better than they do now? As it is, every thing's up the spout—all made away with——"  
  "Well, we'll devilish soon have 'em all down again," interrupted the man. "Dick will be here
      presently; and he and I shall soon settle some job or another. But hadn't you better give them
      kids their supper, and make 'em leave off snivellin' afore Dick comes?"  
  "So I will, Bill," answered the woman; and throwing the children each a piece of bread, she
      added, in a cross tone, "And now tumble into bed, and make haste about it; and if you don't
      hold that blubbering row I'll take the poker to you this time."  
  The little boy gave the larger piece of bread to his sister; and, having divested her of her
      rags, he made her as comfortable as he could on the filthy mattress, covering her over not
      only with   her   clothes but also with   his own  . He kissed her affectionately,
      but without making any noise with his lips, for fear that   that   should irritate his
      mother; and then lay down beside her.  
   would have gladdened their poor hearts;—under such circumstances, we say, did
      these persecuted but affectionate infants, still smarting with the pain of cruel blows, and
      with tears upon their cheeks,—thus did they sink into slumber in each other's arms!  
  Merciful God! it makes the blood boil to think that this is no over-drawn picture—that there
      is no exaggeration in these details; but that there really exist monsters in a human
      form—wearing often, too, the female shape—who make the infancy and early youth of their
      offspring one continued hell—one perpetual scene of blows, curses, and cruelties! Oh! for how
      many of our fellow-creatures have we to blush:—how many demons are there who have assumed our
      mortal appearance, who dwell amongst us, and who set us examples the most hideous—the most
      appalling!  
  As soon as the children were in bed, the woman went out, and returned in a few minutes with
      two pots of strong beer—purchased with the alms that day bestowed by the charitable upon her
      suffering offspring.  
  She and her husband then partook of some cold meat, of which there was a plentiful
      provision—enough to have allowed the boy and the girl each a good slice of bread.  
  And the bread which this man and this woman ate was new and good; but the morsels thrown to
      the children were stale and mouldy.  
  "I tell you what," said the woman, whispering in a mysterious tone to her husband, "I have
      thought of an excellent plan to make Fanny useful."  
  "Well, Polly, and what's that?" demanded the man.  
  "Why," resumed his wife, her countenance wearing an expression of demoniac cruelty and
      cunning, "I've been thinking that Harry will soon be of use to you in your line. He'll be so
      handy to shove through a window, or to sneak down a area and hide himself all day in a cellar
      to open the door at night,—or a thousand things."  
  "In course he will," said Bill, with an approving nod.  
  "Well, but then there's Fanny. What good can she do for us for years and years to come? She
      won't beg—I know she won't. It's all that boy's lies when he says she does: he is very fond of
      her, and only tells us that to screen her. Now I've a very great mind to do someot that will
      make her beg—aye, and be glad to beg—and beg too in spite of herself."  
  "What the hell do you mean?"  
  "Why, doing   that   to her which will put her entirely at our mercy, and at the same
      time render her an object of such interest that the people   must   give her money. I'd
      wager that with my plan she'd get her five bob a day; and what a blessin' that would be."  
  "But how?" said Bill impatiently.  
  "And then," continued the woman, without heeding this question, "she wouldn't want Henry
      with her; and you might begin to make him useful some how or another. All we should have to do
      would be to take Fanny every day to some good thoroughfare, put her down there of a mornin',
      and go and fetch her agen at night; and I'll warrant she'd keep us in beer—aye, and in brandy
      too."  
  "What the devil are you driving at?" demanded the man.  
  "Can't you guess?"  
  "No—blow me if I can."  
  "Do you fancy the scheme?"  
  "Am I a fool? Why, of course I do: but how the deuce is all this to be done? You never could
      learn Fanny to be so fly as that?"  
  "I don't want to learn her anything at all. What I propose is to force it on her."  
  "And how is that?" asked the man.  
  "By putting her eyes out," returned the woman.  
  Her husband was a robber—yes, and a murderer: but he started when this proposal met his
      ear.  
  "There's nothin' like a blind child to excite compassion," added the woman coolly. "I know
      it for a fact," she continued, after a pause, seeing that her husband did not answer her.
      "There's old Kate Betts, who got all her money by travelling about the country with two blind
      girls; and she made 'em blind herself too—she's often told me how she did it; and that has put
      the idea into my head."  
  "And how did she do it?" asked the man, lighting his pipe, but not glancing towards his
      wife; for although her words had made a deep impression upon him, he was yet struggling with
      the remnant of a parental feeling, which remained in his heart in spite of himself.  
  "She covered the eyes over with cockle shells, the eye-lids, recollect, being wide open; and
      in each shell there was a large black beetle. A bandage tied tight round the head, kept the
      shells in their place; and the shells kept the eyelids open. In a few days the eyes got quite
      blind, and the pupils had a dull white appearance."  
  "And you're serious, are you?" demanded the man.  
  "Quite," returned the woman, boldly: "why not?"  
  "Why not indeed?" echoed Bill, who approved of the horrible scheme, but shuddered at the
      cruelty of it, villain as he was.  
  "Ah! why not?" pursued the female: "one must make one's children useful somehow or another.
      So, if you don't mind, I'll send Harry out alone to-morrow morning and keep Fanny at home. The
      moment the boy's out of the way, I'll try my hand at Kate Betts's plan."  
  The conversation was interrupted by a low knock at the attic-door.  
  
  CHAPTER XVIII. THE BOOZING-KEN.  
  "Come in," exclaimed Bill: "I des say it's Dick Flairer."  
  "Well, Bill Bolter, old fellow—here you are at last," cried the new comer. "I s'pose you
      knowed I should come here this evenin'. If you hadn't sent me that message t'other day by the
      young area-sneak what got his discharge out o' Coldbath
       Jug,  target="#ENG18460_N016" [16]   I should ha' come all the same. I remembered very
      well that you was sentenced to six months on it; and I'd calkilated days and weeks right
      enough."  
  "Sit down, Dick, and blow a cloud. Wot news since I see you last?"  
  "None. You know that Crankey Jem is nabbed. He and the Resurrection Man did a pannie together somewhere up Soho way. They got off safe with the
      swag; and the Resurrection Man went on to the Mint. Jem took to the Old House in Chick
       Lane, and let me in for my reglars. But after a week or ten days the Resurrection Man
       nosed upon him, and will turn King's Evidence afore
      the benks. So Jem was handed over to the dubsman;  target="#ENG18460_N021" [21]    
  "In course he will. He has been twice to the floating academy.  target="#ENG18460_N022" [22]   There ain't no chance this time."  
  "But as for business," said Dick Flairer, after a pause, during which he lighted his pipe
      and paid his respects to the beer, "my gropus is as empty as a barrister's bag the day after
      sessions. I have but one bob left in my cly; and that
      we'll spend in brandy presently. My mawleys  target="#ENG18460_N024" [24]   is
      reg'larly itching for a job."  
  "Someot must be done—and that soon too," returned Bill Bolter. "By-the-by, s'pose we try
      that crib which we meant to crack four year or so ago, when you got nabbed the very next
      mornin' for faking a blowen's flag from her nutty arm."  target="#ENG18460_N025" [25]    
  "What—you mean Markham's up between Kentish Town and Lower Holloway?" said Dick.  
  "The same. Don't you recollect—we settled it all the wery night as we threw that young
      fellow down the trap in Chick Lane? But, by goles—Dick—what the deuce is the matter with
      you?"  
  Dick Flairer had turned deadly pale at the mention of this circumstance: his knees shook;
      and he cast an uneasy and rapid glance around him.  
  "Come, Dick—don't be a fool," said the woman: "you don't think there is any ghosts here, do
      you?"  
  "Ghosts!" he exclaimed, with a convulsive start; then, after a moment's silence, during
      which his two companions surveyed him with curiosity and fear, he added in a low and subdued
      tone, "Bill, you know there wasn't a man in all the neighbourhood bolder than me up to the
      time when you got into trouble: you know that I didn't care for ghosts or churchyards, or dark
      rooms, or anything of that kind. Now it's quite altered. If even a man seed speret of a
      person, that man was me about two months ago!"  
  "What the devil does this mean?" cried Bolter, looking uneasily around him in his turn.  
  "Two months ago," continued Dick Flairer, "I was up Hackney way, expecting to do a little
      business with Tom the Cracksman, which didn't come off;
      for Tom had been at the boozing-ken all the night
      before, and had blowed his hand up in a lark with some davy's-dust.  target="#ENG18460_N028" [28]   Well, I wus coming home again, infernal sulky at the
      affair's breaking down, when just as I got to Cambridge-Heath-gate I heerd the gallopin' of
      horses. I looks round, nat'rally enough;—but who should I see upon a lovely chestnut
      mare——"  
  "Who?" said Bill anxiously.  
  "The speret of that wery same young feller as you and I threw down the trap at the old house
      in Chick Lane four year and some months ago!"  
  "Mightn't it have been a mistake, Dick?" demanded Bill.  
  "Why, of course it was," exclaimed the woman.  
  "No, it warn't," said Dick very seriously. "I never tell a lie to a pal,  target="#ENG18460_N029" [29]   Bill—and that you knows well enough. I seed that young man
      as plain as I can now see you, Bill—as plain as I see you, Polly Bolter. I thought I should
      have dropped: I fell right against a post in the footpath; but I took another good long look.
      There he was—the same face—the same hair—the same dress—everything the same! I couldn't be
      mistaken: I'd swear to it."  
  "And would you tell this story to the parish-prig, if
      so be as you was going to Tuck-up Fair  target="#ENG18460_N031" [31]   to-morrow
      morning?" demanded Bill.  
  "I would, by G—d!" cried Dick solemnly, striking his hand upon the table at the same
      time.  
  There was a long pause. Even the woman, who was perhaps more hardened in vice and more
      inaccessible to anything in the shape of sentiment than her male companions, seemed impressed
      by the positive manner in which the man told his story.  
  "Well—come, this won't do!" ejaculated Dick, after the lapse of some minutes. "Ghost or no
      ghost, we can't afford to be honest."  
  "No—we must be up to someot," returned Bill; "if we went and offered ourselves to the parish
      prig he wouldn't take us as his clerk and sexton; so if he won't give us a lift, who the devil
      will? But, about that Markham's place?"  
  "The old fellow died a few months ago, I heard," said Dick; "the eldest son run away; and
      that brought about the father's death. As for the young 'un, he was grabbed this arternoon for
      smashing queer screens.  target="#ENG18460_N032" [32]  "  
  "The devil he was! Well, there ain't no good to be done in that quarter, then? Do you know
      any other spekilation?"  
  "Tom the Cracksman and me was going to do a pannie in a neat little crib up by Clapton, that
      time when he blowed his hand nearly off, larking with his ben-culls.  target="#ENG18460_N033" [33]   I don't see why it shouldn't be done now. Tom told me
      about it. A young swell, fond of horses and dogs—lives exceeding quiet—never no company
      scarcely—but plenty of tin."  
  "Servants?" said Bill, interrogatively.  
  "One man—an old groom; and two women—three in all," replied Dick.  
  "That'll do," observed the woman, approvingly.  
  "Must we speak to the Cracksman first?" demanded Bill.  
  "Yes—fair play's a jewel. I don't believe the Resurrection Man would ever have chirped  target="#ENG18460_N034" [34]   if he had been treated properly. But if this thing is to
      be done, let it be done to-morrow night; and now let us go to the boozing-ken and speak to the
      Cracksman."  
  "I'm your man," said Bill; and the two thieves left the room together.  
  At the top of Union Court is Bleeding Hart Yard, leading to Kirby Street, at right angles to
      which is a narrow alley terminating on Great Saffron Hill. This was the road the burglars
      took.  
  It was now eleven o'clock, and a thick fog—so dense that it seemed as if it could be cut
      with a knife—prevailed. The men kept close together, for they could not see a yard before
      them. Here and there lights glimmered in the miserable casements; and the fog, thus faintly
      illuminated at intervals, appeared of a dingy copper colour.  
  The burglars proceeded along Saffron Hill.  
  The streets were nearly empty; but now and then the pale, squalid, and nameless forms of
      vice were heard at the door-ways of a few houses, endeavouring to lure the passers-by into
      their noisome abodes. A great portion of the unwholesome life of that district had sought
      relief from the pangs of misery and the remorse of crime, in sleep. Alas! the slumbers of the
      poor and of the guilty are haunted by the lean, lank, and gaunt visages of penury, and all the
      fearful escort of turpitude!  
   the brutality of drunken quarrels. Numerous Irish families are crowded together
      in the small back rooms of the houses on Saffron Hill; and the husbands and fathers gorge
      themselves, at the expense of broken-hearted wives and famishing children, with the horrible
      compound of spirit and vitriol, sold at the low gin-shops in the neighbourhood. Hosts of
      "Italian masters" also congregate in that locality; and the screams of the unfortunate boys,
      who writhe beneath the lash of their furious employers on their return home after an
      unsuccessful day with their organs, monkies, white mice, or chalk images, mingle with the
      other appalling or disgusting sounds, which make night in that district truly hideous.  
  Even at the late hour at which the two burglars were wending their way over Saffron Hill,
      boys of ages ranging from seven to fifteen, were lurking in the courts and alleys, watching
      for any decently dressed persons, who might happen to pass that way. Those boys had for the
      most part been seduced from the control of their parents by the receivers of stolen goods in
      Field Lane, or else had been sent into the streets to thieve by those vile parents
      themselves.  
  Thus, as the hulks, the convict-ships, the penitentiaries, and the gallows, relieve society
      of one generation of villains, another is springing up to occupy the vacancy.  
  And this will always be the case so long as laws tend only to punish—and aim not to
      reform.  
  Dick Flairer and Bill Bolter proceeded, without exchanging many words together, through the
      dense fog, until they reached a low public-house, which they entered.  
  Nothing could be more filthy nor revolting than the interior of this "boozing-ken." Sweeps,
      costermongers, Jews, Irish bricklayers, and women of the town were crowding round the bar,
      drinking various malt and spirituous liquors fearfully adulterated. The beer, having been
      originally deluged with water to increase the quantity, had been strengthened by drugs of most
      deleterious qualities—such as tobacco-juice and   cocculus-indicus  . The former is a
      poison as subtle as that of a viper: the latter is a berry of such venomous properties, that
      if thrown into a pond, it will speedily send the fish up to the surface to gasp and die. The
      gin was mixed with vitriol, as hinted above; and the whiskey, called "Paddy's Eye-Water," with
      spirits of turpentine. The pots and glasses in which the various beverages were served up,
      were all stood upon double trays, with a cavity between, and numerous holes in the upper
      surface. The overflowings and drainings were thus caught and saved; and the landlord dispensed
      the precious compound, which bore the name of "all sorts," at a halfpenny a glass.  
  The two burglars nodded familiarly to the landlord and his wife, as they passed the bar, and
      entered a little, low, smoky room, denominated "the parlour." A tremendous fire burnt in the
      grate, at which a short, thin, dark man, with a most forbidding countenance, was sitting,
      agreeably occupied in toasting a sausage. The right hand of this man had lost the two middle
      fingers, the stumps of which were still covered with plaster, as if the injury had been
      recent. He was dressed in a complete suit of corduroy: the sleeves of his jacket, the lower
      part of his waistcoat, and the front of his trousers, were covered with grease. On the table
      near him stood a huge piece of bread and a pot of beer.  
  This individual was Tom the Cracksman—the most adroit and noted burglar in the
      metropolis.  
  He kept a complete list of all the gentlemen's houses in the environs of London, with the
      numbers of servants and male inhabitants in each. He never attempted any dwelling within a
      circuit of three miles of the General Post Office: his avocation was invariably exercised in
      the suburbs of London, where the interference of the police was less probable.  
  At the moment when we introduce him to our readers, he was somewhat "down in his luck," as
      he himself expressed it, the accident which had happened to his hand, through playing with
      gunpowder, having completely disabled him for the preceding two months, and the landlord of
      the "boozing-ken" having made it an invariable rule never to give credit. Thus, though the
      Cracksman had spent hundreds of pounds in that house, he could not obtain so much as a glass
      of "all sorts" without the money.  
  The Cracksman was alone in the parlour when Dick Flairer and Bill Bolter entered. Having
      toasted his sausage, the renowned burglar placed it upon the bread, and began eating his
      supper by means of a formidable clasp-knife, without deigning to cast a glance around.  
  At length Bill Bolter burst out into a loud laugh, and exclaimed, "Why, Tom, you're getting
      proud all on a sudden: you won't speak to your friends."  
  "Halloo, Bill, is that you?" ejaculated the burglar. "When did they turn you out of the
      jug?"  
  "This mornin' at twelve; and with never a brown in my pocket. Luckily the old woman had
      turned the children to some use during the time I was at the stepper, or else I don't know
      what would have become on us."  
  "And I'm as completely stitched up as a man could be if he'd just come out o' the workus,"
      said Tom. "I just now spent my last tanner for this
      here grub. Ah! it's a d——d hard thing for a man like me to be brought down to cag-mag,  target="#ENG18460_N036" [36]  "—he added, glancing sulkily at the sausage, which he was
      eating half raw.  
  "We all sees ups and downs," observed Dick Flairer. "My opinion is that we are too free when
      we have the blunt."  
  "And there's them as is too close when we haven't it," returned the Cracksman bitterly.
      "There's the landlord of this crib won't give a gen'leman like me tick not for one blessed
      farden. But things can't go on so: I'm blowed if I won't do a crack that shall be worth while;
      and then I'll open a ken in opposition to this. You'd see whether I'd refuse a pal tick in the
      hour of need."  
  "Well, you don't suppose that we are here just to amuse ourselves," said Dick: "we come to
      see you."  
  "Is anythink to be done?" demanded the Cracksman.  
  "First answer me this," cried Dick: "has that crib at Upper Clapton been cracked yet?"  
  "What, where there's a young swell——"  
  "I don't know nothing more about it than wot you told me," interrupted Dick. "Me and you was
      to have done it; and then you went larking with the davy's-dust——"  
  "I know the crib you mean," said the Cracksman hastily: "that job is yet to be done. Are you
      the chaps to have a hand in it."  
  "That's the very business that we're come for," answered Bill.  
   all stumped up, and can't hold out no longer. We won't put this thing off—it
      shall be done to-morrow night. Eleven's the hour. I will go Dalston way—you two can arrange
      about the roads you'll take, so long as you don't go together; and we'll all three meet at the
      gate of Ben Price's field at eleven o'clock."  
  "So far, so good," said Dick Flairer. "I've got a darkey: but we want the kifers  target="#ENG18460_N038" [38]   and tools."  
  "And a sack," added Bill.  
  "We must get all these things of old Moses Hart, the fence;  target="#ENG18460_N039" [39]   and give him a share of the swag," exclaimed the Cracksman. "Don't bother
      yourselves about   that  ; I'll make it all right."  
  "Well, now that's settled," said Dick. "I've got a bob in my pocket, and we'll have a rinse
      of the bingo."  
  The burglar went out to the bar, and returned with some brandy, which he and his companions
      drank pure.  
  "So Crankey Jem's in quod?" observed the Cracksman, after a pause.  
  "Yes—and the Resurrection Man too: but he has chirped, and will be let out after
      sessions."  
  "You have heard of his freak over in the Borough I s'pose," said the Cracksman.  
  "No I haven't," answered Bill. "What was it?"  
  "Oh! a capital joke. The story's rather long; but it will bear telling. There's a young
      fellow of the name of Sam Chisney; and his father died about two year ago leaving two thousand
      pounds in the funds. The widder was to enjoy the interest during   her   life; and then
      it was to come, principal and interest both, to Sam. Well, the old woman gets into debt, and
      is arrested. She goes over to the Bench, takes the Rules, and hires a nice lodging on the
      ground floor in Belvidere Place. The young feller wants his money very bad, and doesn't seem
      at all disposed to wait for the old lady's death, particklar as she might live another ten
      years. Well, he comes across the Resurrection Man, and tells him just how he's sitivated. The
      Resurrection Man thinks over the matter; and, being a bit of a scholar, understands the
      business. Off they goes and consults a lawyer named Mac Chizzle, who lives up in the New Road,
      somewhere near the   Servants' Arms   there."  
  "I know that crib well," observed Bill. "It's a were tidy and respectable one."  
  "So Mac Chizzle, Sam Chisney, and the Resurrection Man lay their heads together, and settle
      the whole business. The young chap then goes over to the old woman, and tells her what is to
      be done. She consents: and all's right. Well, that very day the old lady is taken so bad—so
      very bad, she thinks she's a goin' to die. She won't have no doctor; but she sends for a nurse
      as she knows—an old creatur' up'ards of seventy and nearly in her dotage. Then Sam comes; and
      he's so sorry to see his poor dear mother so ill; and she begins to talk very pious, and to
      bless him, and tell him as how she feels that she can't live four-and-twenty hours. Sam cries
      dreadful, and swears he won't leave his poor dear mother—no, not for all the world. He sits up
      with her all night, and is to exceedin' kind; and he goes out and gets a bottle of
      medicine—which arter all worn't nothink but gin and peppermint. The old nurse is quite pleased
      to think that the old woman has got such a attentive son; and he sends out to get a little
      rum; and the old nurse goes to bed blind drunk."  
  "What the devil was all that for?" demanded Dick.  
  "You'll see in a moment," resumed the Cracksman. "Next night at about ten o'clock the young
      fellow says to the nurse—'Nurse, my poor dear mother is wasting away: she can't last out the
      night. I do feel so miserable; and I fancy a drop of the rum that they sell at a partickler
      public, close up by Westminster Bridge.' 'Well, my dear,' says the nurse, 'I'll go and get a
      bottle there; for I feel that we shall both want someot to cheer us through this blessed
      night.' So the old nurse toddles off to the rum at the place Sam told her. He had sent her
      away to a good long distance on purpose. The moment she was gone, Mrs. Chisney gets up,
      dresses herself as quick as she can, and is all ready just as a hackney-coach drives up to the
      door. Sam runs down: all was as right as the mail. There was the Resurrection Man in the
      coach, with the dead body of a old woman that had only been buried the day before, and that
      he'd had up again during the night. So Sam and the Resurrection Man they gets the stiff 'un up
      stairs, and Mrs. Chisney she jumps into the coach and drives away to a comfortable lodging
      which Mac Chizzle had got for her up in Somers Town."  
  "Now I begin to twig," exclaimed Dick Flairer.  
  "Presently the old nurse comes back; and Sam meets her on the stairs, whimpering as hard as
      he could; and says, 'Oh! nurse—your poor dear missus is gone: your poor dear missus is gone!'
      So she was; no mistake about that. Well, the nurse begins to cry; but Sam gets her up stairs,
      and plies her so heartily with the rum that she got blind drunk once more, without ever
      thinking of laying the body out; so she didn't find out it was quite cold. Next day she washed
      it, and laid it out properly; and as she was nearly blind, she didn't notice that the features
      wasn't altogether the same. The body, too, was a remarkable fresh un; and so everything went
      on as well as could be wished. Sam then stepped over to the Marshal of the Bench, and give him
      notice of his mother's death; and as she died in the Rules, there must be an inquest. So a
      jury of prisoners was called: and the old nurse was examined; and she said how exceedin'
      attentive the young man had been, and all that; and then Sam himself was called. Of course he
      told a good tale; and then the Coroner says, 'Well, gentlemen, I s'pose you'll like to look at
      the body.' So over they all goes to Belvidere Place, and the foreman of the Jury just pokes
      his nose in at the door of the room where the corpse was lying; and no one else even went more
      than half up the staircase. After this, the jury is quite satisfied, and return a verdict of
       '  Died from Natural Causes, accelerated by confinement in the Rules of the King's Bench
       Prison  ;' and to this—as they were prisoners themselves—they added some very severe
      remarks upon '  the deceased's unfeeling and remorseless creditors    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Well, I'm blowed if that isn't the best lark I ever heard," ejaculated Dick, when the
      Cracksman had brought his tale to an end.  
  "So it is," added Bill.  
  The parlour of the "boozing-ken" now received some additional guests—all belonging to the
      profession of roguery, though not all following precisely the same line. Thus there were
      Cracksmen, Magsmen, Area-Sneaks, Public Patterers, Buzgloaks,
       Dummy-Hunters, Compter-Prigs, Smashers,
       Flimsy-Kiddies, Macers,  target="#ENG18460_N047" [47]   Coiners, Begging-Letter Impostors, &amp;c., &amp;c.  
  The orgies of that motley crew soon became uproarious and revolting. Those who had money
      lavished it with the most reckless profusion; and thus those who had none were far from being
      in want of liquor.  
  The Cracksman was evidently a great man amongst this horrible fraternity: his stories and
      songs invariably commanded attention.  
    
  
  CHAPTER XIX. MORNING.  
  THE orgie lasted throughout the night in the "boozing-ken." There were plenty of kind guests
      who, being flush of money, treated those that had none; and thus Tom the Cracksman, Dick
      Flairer, and Bill Bolter, were enabled to indulge, to their heart's content, in the
      adulterated liquors sold at the establishment.  
  The cold raw November morning was ushered in with a fine mizzling rain. The gas-lights were
      extinguished in the parlour; and the dawn of day fell upon countenances inflamed with
      debauchery, and rendered hideous by dirt and dark bristling beards.  
  That was a busy hour for the landlord and landlady of the "boozing-ken." The neighbours who
      "used the house," came in, one after another—male and female, to take their "morning." This
      signified their first dram.  
  Then was it that the "all sorts" was in great demand. Old clothesmen, sweeps, dustmen,
      knackers, crimps, and women of the town, crowded round the bar, imbibing the strange but
      potent compound. Even young boys and girls of tender age seemed as a matter of course to
      require the morning stimulant ere they commenced the avocations or business of the day. Matted
      hair, blear-eyes, grimy faces, pestiferous breaths, and hollow cheeks, combined with rags and
      tatters, were the characteristics of the wretches that thronged about the bar of that lowest
      of low drinking-dens.  
  Nothing is more revolting to the eye than the unwashed aspect of dissipation by the dingy
      light of the early dawn. The women had evidently jumped from their beds and huddled on their
      miserable attire without the slightest regard to decency, in order to lose no time in
      obtaining their morning dram. The men appeared as if they had slept in their clothes all
      night; and the pieces of straw in the coarse matted hair of many of them, plainly denoted of
      what materials their beds were made.  
  They all entered shivering, cold, depressed, and sullen. The dram instantly produced an
      extraordinary change in each. Artificial gaiety—a gaiety which developed itself in ribald
      jokes, profane oaths, and obscene talk—was diffused around. Those who could afford it indulged
      in a second and a third glass; and some tossed for pots of beer. The men lighted their pipes;
      and the place was impregnated with the narcotic fumes of the strongest and worst tobacco—that
      bastard opium of the poor.  
  Presently the policeman "upon that beat" lounged in, and was complimented by the landlady
      with a glass of her "best cordial gin." He seemed well acquainted with many of the individuals
      there, and laughed heartily at the jokes uttered in his presence. When he was gone, the
      inmates of the "boozing-ken" all declared, with one accord, "that he was the most niblike  target="#ENG18460_N048" [48]   blue-bottle in the entire force."  
  In the parlour there were several men occupied in warming beer, toasting herrings, and
      frying sausages. The tables were smeared over with a rag as black as a hat, by a dirty
      slip-shod drab of a girl; and with the same cloth she dusted the frame of wire-work which
      protected the dingy face of the huge Dutch clock. Totally regardless of her presence, the men
      continued their obscene and filthy discourse; and she proceeded with her work as coolly as if
      nothing offensive met her ears.  
  There are, thank God! thousands of British women who constitute the glory of their
      sex—chaste, virtuous, delicate-minded, and pure in thought and action,—beings who are but one
      remove from angels now, but who will be angels hereafter when they succeed to their
      inheritance of immortality. It must be to such as these that the eyes of the poet are turned
      when he eulogises, in glowing and impassioned language, the entire sex comprehended under the
      bewitching name of   Woman  ! For, oh! how would his mind be shocked, were he to wander
      for a few hours amidst those haunts of vice and sinks of depravity which we have just
      described;—his spirit, towering on eagle-wing up into the sunny skies of poesy, would flutter
      back again to the earth, at the aspect of those foul and loathsome wretches, who, in the
      female shape, are found in the dwelling-places of poverty and crime!  
  But to continue.  
  Bill Bolter took leave of his companions at about eight o'clock in the morning, after a
      night of boisterous revelry; and rapidly retraced his steps homewards.  
  Field Lane was now swarming with life. The miserable little shops were all open; and their
      proprietors were busy in displaying their commodities to the best advantage. Here Jewesses
      were occupied in suspending innumerable silk handkerchiefs to wires and poles over their
      doors: there the "translators" of old shoes were employed in spreading their stock upon the
      shelves that filled the place where the windows ought to have been. In one or two low dark
      shops women were engaged in arranging herrings, stock-fish, and dried haddocks: in another,
      coals, vegetables, and oysters were exposed for sale; and not a few were hung with "old
      clothes as good as new." To this we may add that in the centre of the great metropolis of the
      mightiest empire in the world—in a city possessing a police which annually costs the nation
      thousands of pounds—and in a country whose laws are vaunted as being adapted to reach and
      baffle all degrees of crime—numbers of receivers of stolen goods were boldly, safely, and
      tranquilly exposing for sale the articles which their agents had "picked up" during the
      preceding night.  
  There was, however, nothing in the aspect of Field Lane at all new to the eyes of Bill
      Bolter. Indeed he merely went down that Jew's bazaar, in his way homewards, because he was
      anxious to purchase certain luxuries in the shape of red-herrings for his breakfast, he having
      borrowed a trifle of a friend at the "boozing-ken" to supply his immediate necessities.  
  When he arrived at his lodgings in Lower Union Court, he was assailed with a storm of
      reproaches, menaces, and curses, on the part of his wife, for having stayed all night at the
      "boozing ken." At first that cruel and remorseless man trembled—actually turned pale and
      trembled in the presence of the virago who thus attacked him. But at length his passion was
      aroused by her taunts and threats; and, after bandying some horrible abuse and foul epithets
      with the infuriate woman, he was provoked to blows. With one stroke of his enormous fist, he
      felled her to the ground, and then brutally kicked her as she lay almost senseless at his
      feet.  
  He then coolly sate down by the fire to cook his own breakfast, without paying the least
      attention to the two poor children, who were crying bitterly in that corner of the room where
      they had slept.  
   the floor. Her features were distorted and her lips were livid with rage. She
      dared not, however, attempt to irritate her furious husband any farther: still her passion
      required a vent. She looked round, and seemed to reflect for a moment.  
  Then, in the next instant, all her concentrated rage burst upon the heads of her unhappy
      offspring.  
  With a horrible curse at their squalling, the woman leapt, like a tiger-cat, upon the poor
      little boy and girl. Harry, as usual, covered his sister with his own thin and emaciated form
      as well as he could; and a torrent of blows rained down upon his naked flesh. The punishment
      which that maddened wretch thus inflicted upon him, was horrible in the extreme.  
  A thousand times before that day had Polly Bolter treated her children with demoniac
      cruelty; and her husband had not attempted to interfere. On the present occasion, however, he
      took it into his head to meddle in the matter—for the simple reason that, having quarrelled
      with his wife, he hated her at the moment, and greedily availed himself of any opportunity to
      thwart or oppose her.  
  Starting from his chair, he exclaimed, "Come, now—I say, leave those children alone. They
      haven't done nothing to you."  
  "You mind your own business," returned the woman, desisting for an instant from her attack
      upon the boy, and casting a look of mingled defiance and contempt at her husband.  
  That woman's countenance, naturally ugly and revolting, was now absolutely frightful.  
  "I say, leave them children alone," cried Bill. "If you touch 'em again, I'll drop down on
      you."  
  "Oh, you coward! to hit a woman! I wish I was a man, I'd pay you off for this: and if I was,
      you wouldn't dare strike me."  
  "Mind what you say, Poll; I'm in no humour to be teased this morning. Keep your mawleys  target="#ENG18460_N049" [49]   off the kids, or I'm blessed if I don't do for you."  
  "Ugh—coward! This is the way I dare you;" and she dealt a tremendous blow upon her boy's
      shoulder.  
  The poor lad screamed piteously: the hand of his mother had fallen with the weight of a
      sledge hammer upon his naked flesh.  
  But that ferocious blow was echoed by another, at scarcely a moment's interval. The latter
      was dealt by the fist of Bill Bolter, and fell upon the back part of the ruthless mother's
      head with stunning force.  
  The woman fell forward, and struck her face violently against the corner of the deal
      table.  
  Her left eye came in contact with the angle of the board, and was literally crushed in its
      socket—an awful retribution upon her who only a few hours before was planning how to plunge
      her innocent and helpless daughter into the eternal night of blindness.  
  She fell upon the floor, and a low moan escaped her lips. She endeavoured to carry her right
      hand to her now sightless eye; but her strength failed her, and her arm fell lifeless by her
      side. She was dying.  
  The man was now alarmed, and hastened to raise her up. The children were struck dumb with
      unknown fears, and clasped each other in their little arms.  
  The woman recovered sufficient consciousness, during the two or three seconds which preceded
      the exhalation of her last breath, to glance with her remaining eye up into her husband's
      face. She could not, however, utter an articulate sound—not even another moan.  
  But no pen could depict, and no words describe, the deadly—the malignant—the fiendish hatred
      which animated her countenance as she thus met her husband's gaze.  
  The tigress, enveloped in the folds of the boa-constrictor, never darted such a glance of
      impotent but profound and concentrated rage upon the serpent that held it powerless in its
      fatal clasp.  
  She expired with her features still distorted by that horrible expression of vindictive
      spite.  
  A few moments elapsed before the man was aware that his wife was dead—that he had murdered
      her!  
  He supported her mechanically, as it were; for he was dismayed and appalled by the savage
      aspect which her countenance had assumed—that countenance which was rendered the more hideous
      by the bleeding eye-ball crushed in its socket.  
  At length he perceived that she was no more; and, with a terrible oath, he let her head drop
      upon the floor.  
  For a minute he stood and contemplated the corpse:—a whirlwind was in his brain.  
  The voices of his children aroused him from his reverie.  
  "Father, what's the matter with mother?" asked the boy, in a timid and subdued tone.  
  "Mother's hurt herself," said Fanny: "poor mother!"  
  "Look at mother's eye, father," added the boy: "do look at it! I'm sure something dreadful
      is the matter."  
  "Damnation!" ejaculated the murderer: and, after another minute's hesitation, he hurried to
      the door.  
  "O, father, father, don't leave us—don't go away from us!" cried the little boy, bursting
      into an agony of tears: "pray don't go away, father! I think mother's dead," added he with a
      glance of horror and apprehension towards the corpse: "so don't leave us, father—and I and
      Fanny will go out and beg, and do anything you like; only pray don't leave us; don't, don't,
      leave us!"  
  With profound anguish in his heart, the little fellow clung to his father's knees, and
      proffered his prayer in a manner the most ingenuous—the most touching.  
  The man paused, as if he knew not what to do.  
  His hesitation lasted but a moment. Disengaging himself from the arms of his child, he said
      in as kind a tone as he could assume—and that tone was kinder than any he had ever used
      before—"Don't be foolish, boy; I shall be back directly. I'm only going to fetch a doctor—I
      shan't be a minute."  
  "Oh, pray don't be long, father!" returned the boy, clasping his little hands imploringly
      together.  
  In another moment the two children were alone with the corpse of their mother; while the
      murderer was rapidly descending the stairs to escape from the contemplation of that scene of
      horror.  
  
  CHAPTER XX. THE VILLA.  
  AGAIN the scene changes. Our readers must accompany us once more to the villa in the
      neighbourhood of Upper Clapton.  
   air of comfort, almost amounting to luxury, pervaded that apartment; and its
      general temperature was the better appreciated, as the wind whistled without, and the rain
      pattered against the windows.  
  At the table, on which stood a dessert of delicious fruits, conserves, cakes, and wines,
      sate Walter Sydney and George Montague.  
  They had now been acquainted nearly three months; and during that period they had met often.
      Montague had, however, seldom called at the villa, save when expressly invited by his friend
      Stephens: still, upon those occasions, he and Walter were frequently alone for some time
      together. Thus, while Stephens was examining into the economy of the stables, or
      superintending improvements in the garden, Montague and that mysterious lady in man's attire,
      were thrown upon their own resources to entertain each other.  
  The reader cannot be surprised if an attachment sprung up between them. So far as that
      lovely woman was concerned, we can vouch that her predilection towards George Montague was the
      sincere and pure sentiment of a generous and affectionate heart. How worthy of such a passion
      his own feelings on the subject might have been, must appear hereafter.  
  The masculine attire and habits which the lady had assumed, had not destroyed the fine and
      endearing characteristics of her woman's heart. She was at first struck by Montague's handsome
      person;—then his varied conversation delighted her;—and, as he soon exerted all his powers to
      render himself agreeable to the heroine of the villa, it was not long before he completely won
      her heart.  
  The peculiarity of her position had taught her—and necessarily so—to exercise an almost
      complete command over the expression of her feelings. Thus, though an explanation had taken
      place between herself and Montague, and a mutual avowal of affection made, Stephens remained
      without a suspicion upon the subject.  
  On the evening when we again introduce our readers to the villa, Montague was there by the
      express desire of Mr. Stephens; but this latter individual had been detained by particular
      business elsewhere. Walter—for so we must continue to call that mysterious being—and Montague
      had therefore dined   tête-à-tête  ; and they were now enjoying together the two or three
      pleasant hours which succeed the most important meal of the day.  
  The plans of the lovers will be comprehended by means of the ensuing conversation, better
      than if drily detailed in our own narrative style:—  
  "Another fortnight—two short weeks only," said the lady, "and the end of this deception will
      have arrived."  
  "Yes—another fortnight," echoed Montague; "and everything will then be favourable to our
      wishes. The 26th of November——"  
  "My poor brother, were he alive, would be of age on the 25th," observed the lady,
      mournfully.  
  "Of course—precisely!" ejaculated Montague.  
  "On the 26th, as I was saying, Stephens's plans will be realized; and you will be worth ten
      thousand pounds."  
  "Oh! it is not so much for the money that I shall welcome that day: but chiefly because it
      will be the last on which I shall be doomed to wear this detestable disguise."  
  "And shall not I be supremely happy to leave this land with you—to call you my own dear
      beloved wife—and to bear you away to the sunny climes of the south of Europe, where we may
      live in peace, happiness, and tranquillity to the end of our days?"  
  "What a charming—what a delicious picture!" ejaculated the lady, her bosom heaving with
      pleasurable emotions beneath the tight frock which confined it. "But——oh! if the plans of Mr.
      Stephens should fail;—and that they   might   fail, I am well assured, for he has often
      said to me, '  Pray be circumspect, Walter: you know not how much depends upon your
       discretion!  '"  
  "Those plans   will   not—  cannot   fail!" cried Montague emphatically. "He has
      told me all—and everything is so well arranged, so admirably provided for!"  
  "He has told you everything," said the lady, reproachfully; "and he has told me
      nothing."  
  "And I dare not enlighten you."  
  "Oh! I would not hear the secret from your lips. I have a confidence the most blind—the most
      devoted in Mr. Stephens; and I feel convinced that he must have sound reasons for keeping me
      thus in the dark with reference to the principal motives of the deception which I am
      sustaining. I know, moreover—at least, he has declared most solemnly to me, and I believe his
      word—that no portion of his plan militates against honour and integrity. He is compelled to
      meet intrigue with intrigue; but all his proceedings are justifiable. There can be no loss of
      character—no danger from the laws of the country. In all this I am satisfied—because a man who
      has done so much for me and my poor deceased mother, would not lead me astray, nor involve me
      either in disgrace or peril."  
  "You are right," said Montague. "Stephens is incapable of deceiving you."  
  "And more than all that I have just said," continued Walter, "I am aware that there is an
      immense fortune at stake; and that should the plans of Mr. Stephens fully succeed, I shall
      receive ten thousand pounds as a means of comfortable subsistence for the remainder of my
      life."  
  "And that sum, joined to what I possess, and to what   I shall have  ," added Montague,
      "will enable us to live in luxury in a foreign land. Oh! how happy shall I be when the time
      arrives for me to clasp you in my arms—to behold you attired in the garb which suits your sex,
      and in which I never yet have seen you dressed—and to call you by the sacred and endearing
      name of   Wife  ! How beautiful must you appear in those garments which——"  
  "Hush, George—no compliments!" cried the lady, with a smile and a blush. "Wait until you see
      me dressed as you desire; and, perhaps, then—  then  , you may whisper to me the soft and
      delicious language of love."  
  The time-piece upon the mantel struck eleven; and Montague rose to depart.  
  It was an awful night. The violence of the wind had increased during the last hour; and the
      rain poured in torrents against the windows.  
  "George, it is impossible that you can venture out in such weather as this," said the lady,
      in a frank and ingenuous manner: "one would not allow a dog to pass the door on such a night.
      Fortunately there is a spare room in my humble abode; and that chamber is at your
      service."  
  Walter rang the bell, and gave Louisa the necessary instructions.  
   to the luxurious and elegant boudoir which we have before described.  
  The satin curtains were drawn over the casement against which the rain beat with increasing
      fury: a cheerful fire actually roared in the grate; and the thick carpet upon the floor, the
      inviting lounging-chair close by the hearth, and the downy couch with its snow-white sheets
      and warm clothing, completed the air of comfort which prevailed in that delicious retreat. The
      vases of sweet flowers were no longer there, it was true; but a fragrant odour of bergamot and
      lavender filled the boudoir. Nothing could be more charming than this warm, perfumed, and
      voluptuous chamber—worthy of the lovely and mysterious being who seemed the presiding divinity
      of that elysian bower.  
  Walter threw herself into the easy-chair, and dismissed her attendant, saying, "You may
      retire, Louisa,—I will undress myself without your aid to-night; for as yet I do not feel
      inclined to sleep. I shall sit here, before this cheerful fire, and indulge in the luxury of
      hopes and future prospects, ere I retire to rest."  
  Louisa withdrew, and Walter then plunged into a delicious reverie. The approaching
      emancipation from the thraldom of an assumed sex—her affection for George Montague—and the
      anticipated possession of an ample fortune to guard against the future, were golden visions
      not the less dazzling for being waking ones.  
  Half an hour had passed away in this manner, when a strange noise startled Walter in the
      midst of her meditations. She thought that she heard a shutter close violently and a pane of
      glass smash to pieces almost at the same moment. Alarm was for an instant depicted upon her
      countenance: she then smiled, and, ashamed of the evanescent fear to which she had yielded,
      said to herself, "It must be one of the shutters of the dining-room or parlour down stairs,
      that has blown open."  
  Taking the lamp in her hand she issued from the boudoir, and hastily descended the stairs
      leading to the ground floor. In her way thither she could hear, even amidst the howling of the
      wind, the loud barking of the dogs in the rear of the villa.  
  The hall, as she crossed it, struck piercing cold, after the genial warmth of the boudoir
      which she had just left. She cautiously entered the parlour on the left hand of the front
      door: all was safe. Having satisfied herself that the shutters in that apartment were securely
      closed and fastened, she proceeded to the dining-room.  
  She opened the door, and was about to cross the threshold, when—at that moment—the lamp was
      dashed from her hand by some one inside the room; and she herself was instantly seized by two
      powerful arms, and dragged into the apartment.  
  A piercing cry issued from her lips; and then a coarse and hard hand was pressed violently
      on her mouth. Further utterance was thus stopped.  
  "Here—Bill—Dick," said a gruff voice; "give me a knife—I must settle this feller's hash—or
      I'm blessed if he won't alarm the house."  
  "No more blood—no more blood!" returned another voice, hastily, and with an accent of
      horror. "I had enough of that this mornin'. Gag him, and tie him up in a heap."  
  "D—n him, do for him!" cried a third voice. "Don't be such a cursed coward, Bill."  
  "Hold your jaw, will ye—and give me a knife, Dick," said the first speaker, who was no other
      than Tom the Cracksman. "The fellow struggles furious—but I've got hold on him by the
      throat."  
  Scarcely had these words issued from the lips of the burglar, when the door was thrown open,
      and Montague entered the room.  
  He held a lamp in one hand, and a pistol in the other; and it was easy to perceive that he
      had been alarmed in the midst of his repose, for he had nothing on save his trousers and his
      shirt.  
  On the sudden appearance of an individual thus armed, Tom the Cracksman exclaimed, "At
      him—down with him! We must make a fight of it."  
  The light of the lamp, which Montague held in his hand, streamed full upon the countenance
      and person of Walter Sydney, who was struggling violently in the suffocating grasp of the
      Cracksman.  
  "Hell and furies!" ejaculated Dick Flairer, dropping his dark lantern and a bunch of
      skeleton keys upon the floor, while his face was suddenly distorted with an expression of
      indescribable horror; then, in obedience to the natural impulse of his alarm, he rushed
      towards the window, the shutters and casement of which had been forced open, leapt through it,
      and disappeared amidst the darkness of the night.  
  Astonished by this strange event, Bill Bolter instantly turned his eyes from Montague, whom
      he was at that moment about to attack, towards the Cracksman and Walter Sydney.  
  The colour fled from the murderer's cheeks, as if a sudden spell had fallen upon him: his
      teeth chattered—his knees trembled—and he leant against the table for support.  
  There was the identical being whom four years and five months before, they had hurled down
      the trap-door of the old house in Chick Lane:—and who, that had ever met that fate as yet, had
      survived to tell the tale?  
  For an instant the entire frame of the murderer was convulsed with alarm: the apparition
      before him—the vision of his assassinated wife—and the reminiscences of other deeds of the
      darkest dye, came upon him with the force of a whirlwind. For an instant, we say, was he
      convulsed with alarm;—in another moment he yielded to his fears, and, profiting by his
      companion's example, disappeared like an arrow through the window.  
  Amongst persons engaged in criminal pursuits, a panic-terror is very catching. The
      Cracksman—formidable and daring as he was—suddenly experienced an unknown and vague fear, when
      he perceived the horror and unassumed alarm which had taken possession of his comrades. He
      loosened his grasp upon his intended victim: Walter made a last desperate effort, and released
      himself from the burglar's power.  
  "Approach me, and I will blow your brains out," cried Montague, pointing his pistol at the
      Cracksman.  
  Scarcely were these words uttered, when the burglar darted forward, dashed the lamp from the
      hands of Montague, and effected his escape by the window.  
  Montague rushed to the casement, and snapped the pistol after him: the weapon only flashed
      in the pan.  
  Montague closed the window and fastened the shutters. He then called Walter by name; and,
      receiving no answer, groped his way in the dark towards the door.  
    
  Scarcely two minutes had elapsed since Montague had entered the room; for the confusion and
      flight of the burglars had not occupied near so much time to enact as to describe. The entire
      scene had moreover passed without any noise calculated to disturb the household.  
  There were consequently no servants at hand to afford Walter the succour which he
      required.  
  For a moment Montague hesitated what course to pursue; but, after one instant's reflection,
      he took her in his arms, and carried her up into her own enchanting and delicious boudoir.  
  
  CHAPTER XXI. ATROCITY.  
  GEORGE Montague placed his precious burden upon the bed, and for a moment contemplated her
      pale but beautiful countenance with mingled feelings of admiration, interest, and desire. The
      lips were apart, and two rows of pearl glittered beneath. The luxuriant light chesnut hair
      rolled over his arm, on which he still supported that head of perfect loveliness: his hand
      thus played with those silken, shining tresses.  
  Still she remained motionless—lifeless.  
  Gently withdrawing his arm, Montague hastened to sprinkle her countenance with water. The
      colour returned faintly, very faintly to her cheeks; and her lips moved gently; but she opened
      not her eyes.  
  For a moment he thought of summoning Louisa to her assistance; then, obedient to a second
      impulse, he hastily loosened the hooks of her semi-military frock-coat.  
  Scarcely had his hand thus invaded the treasures of her bosom, when she moved, and unclosed
      the lids of her large melting hazel-eyes.  
  "Where am I?" she exclaimed, instinctively closing her coat over her breast.  
  "Fear not, dearest," whispered Montague; "it is I—I who love you."  
  The scene with the burglars instantly flashed to the mind of the lady; and she cried in a
      tone rendered tremulous by fear—"And those horrible men—are they all three gone?"  
  "They are gone—and you are safe."  
  "Oh! you will pardon me this weakness," continued Walter, hastily moving from the bed to a
      chair; "but two of those villains—I recognised them but too well—were the men who threw me
      down the trap-door in the old house near Smithfield."  
  "Hence their alarm—their panic, when they saw you," exclaimed Montague: "they fancied that
      they beheld a spirit instead of a reality. This accounts for their sudden and precipitate
      flight, till this moment unaccountable to me."  
  "And you, George," said the lady, glancing tenderly toward the young man—"you are my saviour
      from a horrible death! Another moment, and it would have been too late—they were going to
      murder me! Oh! how can I sufficiently express my gratitude."  
  She tendered him her hand, which he pressed rapturously to his lips;—and she did not
      withdraw it.  
  "I heard a noise of a shutter closing violently, and of a pane of glass breaking," said
      Montague: "I started from my bed and listened. In a few moments afterwards I heard footsteps
      on the stairs——"  
  "Those were mine, as I descended," interrupted Walter; "for I was alarmed by the same
      disturbance."  
  "And, then, while I was hastily slipping on my clothes," added Montague, "I heard a scream.
      Not another moment did I wait; but——"  
  "You came in time, I repeat, to save my life. Never—never shall I sufficiently repay
      you."  
  Again did Montague press the fair hand of that enchanting woman to his lips; and then, as he
      leant over her, their eyes met, and they exchanged glances of love—hers pure and chaste, his
      ardent and brimful of desire. He was maddened—he was emboldened by those innocent tokens of
      affection upon her part; and, throwing his arms around her, he imprinted hot and burning
      kisses upon her lips.  
  With difficulty did she disengage herself from his embrace; and she cast upon him a look of
      reproach mingled with melancholy.  
  "Pardon me, dearest one," he exclaimed, seizing her hand once more and pressing it to his
      lips; "is it a crime to love you so tenderly—so well?"  
  "No, George—no: you are my saviour—you soon will be my husband—you need not ask for my
      forgiveness. But now leave me—retire to your own room as noiselessly as you can; and
      to-morrow—to-morrow," she added with a blush, "it is not necessary that Louisa should know
      that you were   here  ."  
  "I understand you, dearest," returned Montague; "your wishes shall ever be my commands. Good
      night, beloved one!"  
  "Good night, dear George," said the lady;—and in another moment she was again alone in the
      boudoir.  
  Montague returned to his apartment, full of the bliss which he had derived from the caresses
      enjoyed in a chamber that seemed sacred to mystery and love. He paced his own room with hasty
      and agitated steps: his brain was on fire.  
  His own loose ideas of morality induced him to put but little faith in the reality of female
      virtue. He moreover persuaded himself that the principles of rectitude—supposing that they had
      ever existed—in the bosom of the enchanting creature he had just left, had been undermined or
      destroyed by the cheat which she was practising with regard to her sex. And, lastly, he
      fancied that her affections were too firmly rivetted on him to refuse him anything.  
  Miserable wretch! he was blinded by his own mad desires. He knew not that woman's virtue is
      as real, as pure, and as precious as the diamond; he remembered not that the object of his
      licentious passion was innocent of aught criminal in the disguise which she had assumed;—he
      reflected not that the caresses which she had ere now permitted him to snatch, were those
      which the most spotless virgin may honourably award to her lover.  
  He paced his room in a frenzied manner—allowing his imagination to picture scenes and
      enjoyments of the most voluptuous kind. By degrees his passion became ungovernable: he was no
      longer the cool, calculating man he hitherto had been;—a new chord appeared to have been
      touched in his heart.  
  At that moment he would have signed a bond, yielding up all hopes of eternal salvation to
      the Evil One, for a single hour of love in the arms of that woman whom he had left in the
      boudoir!  
  His passion had become a delirium:—he would have plunged into the crater of Vesuvius, or
      thrown himself from the ridge of the Alpine mountain into the boiling torrent beneath, had she
      gone before him.  
   the charms of her whose beauty had thus strangely affected him,—the endearing
      words which she had uttered,—the thrilling effect of the delicious kisses he had received from
      her moist vermilion lips,—and the voluptuous contours of that snowy bosom which had been for a
      moment revealed to his eyes.  
  An hour passed: he opened the door of his chamber and listened.  
  A dead silence prevailed throughout the house.  
  He stole softly along the passage and through the anteroom which led to the boudoir.  
  When he reached the door of that chamber he paused for a moment. What was he about to do? He
      waited not to answer the question, nor to reason within himself: he only chose to remember
      that a thin partition was all that separated him from one of the most beauteous creatures upon
      whom the sun ever shone in this world.  
  His fingers grasped the handle of the door: he turned it gently;—the door was not
      locked!  
  He entered the boudoir as noiselessly as a spectre. The lamp was extinguished; but the fire
      still burnt in the grate; and its flickering light played tremulously on the various objects
      around, bathing in a rich red glare the downy bed whereon reposed the heroine of the
      villa.  
  The atmosphere was warm and perfumed.  
  The head of the sleeper was supported upon one naked arm, which was round, polished, and of
      exquisite whiteness. The other lay outside the clothes, upon the coverlid. Her long hair
      flowed in undulations upon the snowy pillows. The fire shone with Rembrandt effect upon her
      countenance, one side of which was completely irradiated, while the other caught not its
      mellow light. Thus the perfect regularity of the profile was fully revealed to him who now
      dared to intrude upon those sacred slumbers.  
  "She shall be mine! she shall be mine!" murmured Montague; and he advanced toward the
      bed.  
  At that moment—whether aroused by a dream, or startled by the almost noiseless tread of feet
      upon the carpet, we cannot say—the lady awoke.  
  She opened her large hazel eyes; and they fell upon a figure to whom her imagination, thus
      suddenly surprised, and the flickering light of the fire, gave a giant stature.  
  Her fears in one respect were, however, immediately relieved; for the voice of Montague fell
      upon her ears almost as soon as her eyes caught sight of him.  
  "Pardon—pardon, dearest one!" he said in a harried and subdued tone.  
  "Ah! is it so?" quickly ejaculated the lady, who in a moment comprehended how her privacy
      had been outraged; and passing her arm beneath the pillow, she drew forth a long, sharp,
      shining dagger.  
  Montague started back in dismay.  
  "Villain, that you are—approach this bed, and, without a moment's hesitation, I will plunge
      this dagger into your heart!"  
  "Oh! forgive me—forgive me!" ejaculated the young man, cruelly embarrassed. "Dazzled by your
      beauty—driven mad by your caresses—intoxicated, blinded with passion—I could not command
      myself—I had no power over my actions."  
  "Attempt no apology!" said the lady, with a calm and tranquil bitterness of accent that
      showed how profoundly she felt the outrage—the atrocity, that he, whom she loved so tenderly,
      had dared to meditate against her: "attempt no apology—but leave this room without an
      instant's delay, and without another word. Within my reach is a bell-rope—one touch of my
      finger and I can call my servants to my assistance. Save me that exposure—save yourself that
      disgrace. To-morrow I will tell you my opinion of your conduct."  
  There was something so determined—so cool—so resolute in the manner and the matter of this
      address, that Montague felt abashed—humbled—beaten down to the very dust. Even his grovelling
      soul at that moment comprehended the Roman mind of the woman whom he would have disgraced: a
      coward when burglars menaced her life, she was suddenly endowed with lion-daring in defence of
      her virtue.  
  The crest-fallen young man again attempted to palliate his intrusion: with superb scorn she
      waved her hand imperiously, as a signal to leave the room.  
  Tears of vexation, shame, and rage, started into his eyes, as he obeyed that silent mandate
      which he now dared no longer to dispute.  
  The moment the wretch had left the boudoir, the lady sprang from the bed and double-locked
      the door.  
  She then returned to her couch, buried her head in the pillow, and burst into an agony of
      tears.  
  
  CHAPTER XXII. A WOMAN'S MIND.  
  WHEN Louisa entered the boudoir on the morning which succeeded this eventful night, nothing
      in Walter's countenance denoted the painful emotions that filled her bosom. She narrated the
      particulars of the burglarious entry of the dwelling, and Montague's opportune arrival upon
      the scene of action, with a calmness which surprised her faithful attendant. The truth was,
      that the attempt of the robbers upon the house, and even the danger in which her own life had
      been placed, had dwindled, in her own estimation, into events of secondary importance, when
      compared with that one atrocity which had suddenly wrecked all her hopes of love and happiness
      for ever.  
  The usual mysterious toilet was speedily performed; and, with a firm step and a countenance
      expressive of a stern decision, she descended to the breakfast-parlour.  
  Montague was already there—pale, haggard, abashed, and trembling. He knew that the chance of
      possessing a lovely woman and ten thousand pounds was then at stake; and, in addition to this
      perilous predicament of his nearest and dearest hopes, his position was embarrassing and
      unpleasant in the extreme. Had he succeeded in his base attempt, he would have been a victor
      flushed with conquest, and prepared to dictate terms to a woman entirely at his mercy:—but he
      had been foiled, and he himself was the dejected and baffled being who would be compelled to
      crave for pardon.  
  As Louisa entered the room close upon the heels of Walter, the latter greeted George
      Montague with a most affable morning's welcome, and conversed with him in a manner which
      seemed to say that she had totally forgotten the occurrence of the night.  
  But the moment that Louisa had completed the arrangements of the breakfast table, and had
      left the room, Walter's tone and manner underwent an entire and sudden change.  
    
  "What! then you have not forgiven me?" exclaimed Montague, profoundly surprised.  
  "Forgive you!" repeated the lady, almost indignantly: "do you suppose that I think so little
      of myself, or would give you such scope to think so little of me, as to pass by in silence a
      crime which was atrocious in a hundred ways? I loved you sincerely—tenderly—oh! God only knows
      how I loved you; and you would have taken advantage of my sincere and heartfelt affection. The
      dream in which I had indulged is now dispelled; the vision is over; the illusion is
      dissipated. Never would I accompany to the altar a man whom I could not esteem; and I can no
      longer esteem you. Then again, I offered you the hospitality of my abode; and that sacred rite
      you would have infamously violated. I cannot, therefore, even retain you as a friend. In
      another sense, too, your conduct was odious. You saved my life—and for that I shall ever
      remember you with gratitude: but you nevertheless sought to avail yourself of that service as
      a means of robbing me of my honour. Oh! all this was abominable—detestable on your part; and
      what is the result? My love can never avail you now; I will crush it—extinguish it in my bosom
      first. My friendship cannot be awarded; my gratitude alone remains. That shall accompany you;
      for we must now separate—and for ever."  
  "Separate—and forever!" ejaculated Montague, who had listened with deep interest and various
      conflicting emotions to this strange address: "no—you cannot mean it? you will not be thus
      relentless?"  
  "Mr. Montague," returned the lady, with great apparent coolness—though in reality she was
      inflicting excruciating tortures upon her own heart; "no power on earth can alter my resolves.
      We shall part—here—now—and for ever and may happiness and prosperity attend you."  
  "But Mr. Stephens?" cried Montague: "what can you say to him? what will he think?"  
  "He shall never know the truth from   me  ," answered Walter solemnly.  
  "This is absurd!" ejaculated Montague, in despair at the imminent ruin of all his hopes.
      "Will not my humblest apology—my sincerest excuses—my future conduct,—will nothing atone for
      one false step, committed under the influence of generous wines and of a passion which
      obtained a complete mastery over me? Will nothing move your forgiveness?"  
  "Nothing," answered Walter, with unvaried coolness and determination. "Were I a young girl
      of sixteen or seventeen, it might be different:   then   I might be deceived by your
      sophistry.   Now   it is impossible! I am five and twenty years old; and circumstances,"
      she added, glancing over her male attire, "have also tended to augment my experience in the
      sinuosities of human designs and the phases of the human heart."  
  "Yes—you are twenty-five, it is true," cried Montague; "but that age has not robbed your
      charms of any of the grace and freshness of youth. Oh! then let your mind be cautious how it
      adopts the severe notions of riper years!"  
  "I thank you for the compliment which you pay me," said Walter, satirically; "and I can
      assure you that it does not prove a welcome preface to the argument which you would found upon
      it. Old or young—experienced or ignorant in the ways of the world—a woman were a fool to marry
      where she could not entertain respect for her husband. I may be wrong: but this is my
      conviction;—and upon it will I act."  
  "This is but an excuse to break with me," said Montague: "you no longer love me."  
  "No—not as I did twelve hours ago."  
  "You never loved me! It is impossible to divest oneself of that passion so suddenly as
      this."  
  "Love in my mind is a species of worship or adoration, and can be damaged by the evil
      suspicions that may suddenly be thrown upon its object."  
  "No—that is not love," exclaimed Montague, passionately: "true love will make a woman follow
      her lover or her husband through all the most hideous paths of crime—even to the
      scaffold."  
  "The woman who truly loves, will follow her husband as a duty, but not her lover to
      countenance him in his crimes. We are not, however, going to argue this point:—for my part, I
      am not acting according to the prescribed notions of romances or a false sentimentality, but
      strictly in accordance with my own idea of what is suitable to my happiness and proper to my
      condition. I repeat, I am not the heroine of a novel in her teens—I am a woman of a certain
      age, and can reflect calmly in order to act decidedly."  
  Montague made no reply, but walked towards the window. Strange and conflicting sentiments
      were agitating in his brain.  
  'Twas thus he reasoned within himself.  
  "If I use threats and menaces, I shall merely open her eyes to the real objects which
      Stephens has in view; and she will shrink from the fearful dangers she is about to encounter.
      Whether she changes her mind or not with regard to me, and whether I proceed farther in the
      business or not, the secret is in my hands; and Stephens will pay me handsomely to keep it.
      Perhaps I had even better stop short where I am: I am still in a position to demand
      hush-money, and avoid the extreme peril which must accrue to all who appear prominently in the
      affair on the 26th of the month."  
  The selfish mind of George Montague thus revolved the various phases of his present
      position: and in a few moments he was determined how to act.  
  Turning towards Walter Sydney, he exclaimed, "You are decided not to forgive me?"  
  "I have made known to you my resolution—that we should now part, for ever."  
  "How can we part for ever, when your friend and benefactor, Mr. Stephens, requires my
      services?"  
  "Mr. Stephens informed me '  that a third person was necessary to the complete success of
       his designs, and that he had fixed upon you  .' Consequently, another friend may fill the
      place which he intended you to occupy."  
  "You seem to have well weighed the results of your resolution to see me no more," said
      Montague bitterly.  
  "There is time for thought throughout the live-long night, when sleep is banished from the
      pillow," returned the lady proudly.  
  "I can scarcely comprehend your conduct," said Montague, after another pause. "You do not
      choose that your servants should know what occurred last night: is it your intention to
      acquaint Mr. Stephens with the real truth?"  
  "That depends entirely upon yourself. To speak candidly, I do   not   that some levity on my part must have encouraged you to violate the sanctity of
      my chamber. If you, sir, are a man of honour," added the lady emphatically,—"and if you have a
      spark of feeling and generosity left, you will take measures with Mr. Stephens to spare me
      that last mortification."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I will do as you require," returned Montague, well pleased with this arrangement. "This
      very day will I communicate to Mr. Stephens my desire to withdraw from any further
      interference in his affairs; and I will allege the pressing nature of my own concerns as an
      excuse."  
  "Act as you will," said the lady; "but let there remain behind no motive which can lead you
      to repeat your visits to this house. You comprehend me?"  
  "Perfectly," replied Montague. "But once more let me implore you—"  
  "Enough—enough!" exclaimed Walter. "You know not the firmness of the female mind: perhaps I
      have this morning taught you a lesson in that respect. We must now part, Mr. Montague; and
      believe me—believe me, that, although no power on earth can alter the resolution to which I
      came during the long and painful vigil of the past night, I still wish you well;—and,
      remember, my gratitude accompanies you!"  
  Walter hesitated for a moment, as if another observation were trembling upon her tongue:
      then stifling her emotions with a powerful effort, she waved her hand to the delinquent, and
      abruptly left the room.  
   secret shall be as good as an annuity for years to come. Let me see—I must have
      money now to insure my silence, upon breaking off all further connexion with the business.
      Then I must keep an eye upon him; and should he succeed on the 26th of this month—and he
         must   succeed, if this punctilious lady does not see through his designs in the
      meantime—then can I step forward and demand another sum under a threat of exposing the entire
      scheme. And then, too," he added, while his countenance wore an expression of mingled revenge
      and triumph,—"then, too, can I appear before this vain, this scrupulous, this haughty woman,
      and with one word send her on her knees before me! Then will she stoop her proud brow, and her
      prayers and intercessions upon that occasion shall be expressed as humbly as her reproaches
      and her taunts were tyrannically levelled at me to-day! Yes—I will keep my eye upon Walter
      Sydney and her benefactor Stephens," he said, with an ironical chuckle: "they may obtain their
      princely fortune, but a due share shall find its way into my pocket!"  
  These or similar reflections continued to occupy the mind of George Montague, after he had
      left the villa, and while he was on his way to the nearest point where he could obtain a
      conveyance to take him into the City.  
  
  CHAPTER XXIII. THE OLD HOUSE IN SMITHFIELD AGAIN.  
  THE visitor to the Polytechnic Institution or the Adelaide Gallery, has doubtless seen the
      exhibition of the microscope. A drop of the purest water, magnified by that instrument some
      thousands of times, appears filled with horrible reptiles and monsters of revolting forms.  
  Such is London.  
  Fair and attractive as the mighty metropolis may appear to the superficial observer, it
      swarms with disgusting, loathsome, and venomous objects, wearing human shapes.  
  Oh! London is a city of strange contrasts!  
  The bustle of business, and the smile of pleasure,—the peaceful citizen, and the gay
      soldier,—the splendid shop, and the itinerant pastry-stall,—the gorgeous equipage, and the
      humble market-cart,—the palaces of nobles, and the hovels of the poor,—the psalm from the
      chapel, and the shout of laughter from the tavern,—the dandies lounging in the west-end
      streets, and the paupers cleansing away the mud,—the funeral procession, and the bridal
      cavalcade,—the wealthy and high-born lady whose reputation is above all cavil, and the lost
      girl whose shame is below all notice,—the adventurer who defends his honour with a duel, and
      the poor tradesman whom unavoidable bankruptcy has branded as a rogue,—the elegantly-clad
      banker whose insolvency must soon transpire, and the ragged old miser whose wealth is not
      suspected,—the monuments of glory, and the hospitals of the poor,—the temples where men adore
      a God with affectation, and the shrines at which they lose their gold to a deity whom they
      adore without affectation,—in a word, grandeur and squalor, wealth and misery, virtue and
      vice,—honesty which has never been tried, and crime which yielded to the force of irresistible
      circumstances,—all the features, all the characteristics, all the morals, of a great city,
      must occupy the attention of him who surveys London with microscopic eye.  
  And what a splendid subject for the contemplation of the moralist is a mighty city which, at
      every succeeding hour, presents a new phase of interest to the view;—in the morning, when only
      the industrious and the thrifty are abroad, and while the wealthy and the great are sleeping
      off the night's pleasure and dissipation:—at noon, when the streets are swarming with life, as
      if some secret source without the walls poured at that hour myriads of animated streams into
      the countless avenues and thoroughfares;—in the evening, when the men of pleasure again
      venture forth, and music, and dancing, and revelry prevail around;—and at night, when every
      lazar-house vomits forth its filth, every den lets loose its horrors, and every foul court and
      alley echoes to the footsteps of crime!  
  It was about two o'clock in the morning, (three hours after the burglarious attempt upon the
      villa,) that a man, drenched by the rain which continued to pour in torrents, with his hat
      drawn over his eyes, and his hands thrust in his pockets to protect them against the cold,
      crept cautiously down West Street, from Smithfield, dodged past the policeman, and entered the
      old house which we have described at the opening of our narrative.  
  Having closed and carefully bolted the front door, he hastily ascended to the room on the
      first floor where Walter Sydney had seen him and his companion conceal their plunder four
      years and four months previously.  
  This man—so wet, so cold, and so miserable—was Bill Bolter, the murderer.  
  Having groped about for a few moments, he found a match, struck it, and obtained a light.
      One of the secret recesses furnished a candle; and the flickering glare fell upon the haggard,
      unshaven, and dirty countenance of the ruffian.  
  Scarcely had he lighted the candle, when a peculiar whistle was heard in the street, just
      under the window. The features of Bolter became suddenly animated with joy; and, as he hastily
      descended the stairs, he muttered to himself, "Well, at all events here's one on 'em."  
  The individual to whom he opened the door was Dick Flairer—in no better plight, mentally and
      bodily, than himself.  
  "Is there any bingo, Bill?" demanded Dick, the moment he set foot in the up-stairs room.  
  "Not a drain," answered Bolter, after a close inspection of the cupboard in the wall between
      the windows; "and not a morsel of grub neither."  
  "Blow the grub," said Dick. "I ain't in no humour for eating; but I could drink a gallon.
      I've been thinking as I come along, and after the first shock was over, wot cursed fools you
      and me was to be humbugged in this here affair. Either that young feller was the brother of
      the one which we threw down the trap——"  
  "No: I could swear that he is the same," interrupted Bill.  
  "Well—then he must have made his escape—and that's all," added Dick Flairer.  
  "That must be it," observed Bolter, after a long pause. "But it was so sudden upon us—and
      then without no time to think—and all that——"  
  "You may say what you like, Bill—but I shall never forgive myself. I was the first to bolt;
      and I was a coward. How shall I ever be able to look the Cracksman in the face again, or go to
      the parlour of the boozing-ken?"  
   it was me that must say 'Cheer up.' The fact is, someot must be done without
      delay. I told you and Tom what had happened at my crib; and so, lay up for some time I must.
      Come, now—Dick, you won't desert a pal in trouble?"  
  "There's my hand, Bill. On'y say wot you want done, and I'm your man."  
  "In the first place, do you think it's safe for me to stay here? Won't that young feller
      give the alarm, and say as how his house was attempted by the same cracksmen that wanted to
      make a stiff 'un of him between four and five years ago at this old crib; and then won't the
      blue-bottles come and search the place from chimley-pot down to foundation-stone?"  
  "Let 'em search it," ejaculated Flairer: "they'll on'y do it once; and who cares for that?
      You can lie as snug down stairs for a week or so as if you was a thousand miles off. Besides,
      who'd think for a instant that you'd hide yourself in the wery spot that the young feller
      could point out as one of our haunts? Mark me, Bill—if yer goes up to Rat's Castle in Saint
      Giles's, you would find too many tongues among them cursed Irishers to ask '  Who is
       he?  ' and '  What is he?  ' If you goes over to the Mint, you'll be sure to be
      twigged by a lot o' them low buzgloaks and broken-down magsmen as swarms there; and they'll
      nose upon you for a penny. Whitechapel back-slums isn't safe; for the broom-gals, the blacks,
      and the ballad singers which occupies all that district, is always a quarrelling; and the
      blue-bottles is constantly poking their nose in every crib in consekvence. Here you are snug;
      and I can bring you your grub and tell you the news of an evenin' arter dark."  
  "But to be penned up in that infernal hole for a fortnit or three weeks, till the storm's
      blowed over, is horrible to think on," said Bill.  
  "And scragging  target="#ENG18460_N050" [50]   more horrible still," said Dick,
      significantly.  
  Bill Bolter shuddered; and a convulsive motion agitated his neck, as if he already felt the
      cord around it. His countenance became ashy pale; and, as he glanced fearfully around, he
      exclaimed, "Yes, you're right, Dick: I'll take myself to the hiding-crib, and you can give me
      the office  target="#ENG18460_N051" [51]   at any moment, if things goes wrong.
      To-morrow you must try and find out whether there's much of a row about the affair in the
      Court."  
  The ruffian never expressed the least anxiety relative to the fate of his children.  
  "To-morrow!" exclaimed Dick: "to-day you mean—for it can't be far off from three o'clock.
      And now talking about grub is all very easy; but getting it is quite another thing. Neither
      you nor me hasn't got a scurrick; and where to get a penny loaf on tick I don't know."  
  "By hell, I shall starve, Dick!" cried the murderer, casting a glance of alarm and horror
      upon his companion.  
  "Whatever I get shall be for you first, Bill; and to get anythink at all I must be wide
      awake. The grass musn't grow under my feet."  
  At that moment a whistle, similar to the sound by which Dick Flairer had notified his
      approach to Bill Bolter, emanated from the street and fell upon the ears of those
      worthies.  
  Dick hastened to respond to this summons, and in a short time introduced the Cracksman.  
  The moment this individual entered the room, he demanded if there were anything to eat or to
      drink upon the premises. He of course received a melancholy negative: but, instead of being
      disheartened, his countenance appeared to wear a smile of pleasure.  
  "Now, you see, I never desert a friend in distress," he exclaimed; and, with these words, he
      produced from his pocket a quantity of cold victuals and a large flask of brandy.  
  Without waiting to ask questions or give explanations, the three thieves fell tooth and nail
      upon the provender.  
  "I knowed you'd come to this here crib, because Bill don't dare go to the boozing-ken till
      the affair of the Court's blowed over," said the Cracksman, when his meal was terminated; "and
      so I thought I'd jine you. Arter I left the place out by Clapton——"  
  "And how the devil did you get away?" demanded Dick.  
  "Just the same as you did. It would have sarved you right if I'd never spoke to you agin,
      and blowed you at the ken into the bargain; but I thought to myself, thinks I, 'It must be
      someot very strange that made the Flairer and the Bolter cut their lucky and leave their pal
      in the lurch; so let's hear wot they has to say for themselves fust.' Then, as I come along, I
      found a purse in a gentleman's pocket just opposite Bethnal Green New Church; and that put me
      into good humour. So I looked in at the ken, got the grub and the bingo, and come on
      here."  
  "You're a reg'lar trump, Tom!" ejaculated Dick Flairer; "and I'll stick to you like bricks
      from this moment till I die. The fact is—me and Bill has told you about that young feller
      which we throwed down the trap some four or five year back."  
  "Yes—I remember."  
  "Well—we seed him to-night."  
  "To-night! What—at the crib up there?"  
  "The swell that you got a grip on in the dark, was the very self-same one."  
  "Then he must have got clear off—that's all!" cried the Cracksman. "It was no ghost—but rale
      plump flesh and hot blood, I'll swear."  
  "So we both think now, to be sure," said Dick: "but you don't bear any ill-will, Tom?"  
  "Not a atom. Here's fifteen couters  target="#ENG18460_N052" [52]   which was in the
      purse of the swell which I met at Bethnal-Green; and half that's yourn. But, about Bill
      there—wot's he a-going to do?"  
  Dick pointed with his finger downwards: Tom comprehended the signal, and nodded
      approvingly.  
  The brandy produced a cheering effect upon the three ruffians: and pipes and tobacco
      augmented their joviality. Their discourse gradually became coarsely humorous; and their mirth
      boisterous. At length Bill Bolter, who required every possible means of artificial stimulant
      and excitement to sustain his spirits in the fearful predicament in which he was placed,
      called upon the Cracksman for a song.  
  Tom was famous amongst his companions for his vocal qualifications; and he was not a little
      proud of the reputation he had acquired in the parlours of the various "boozing-kens" and
       "patter-cribs"  target="#ENG18460_N053" [53]   which he was in the habit of
      frequenting. He was not, therefore, backward in complying with his friend's request; and, in a
      somewhat subdued tone, (for fear of making   too much noise   often heard in Chick Lane), he sang the following lines:—  
  THE THIEVES' ALPHABET.  
  
  A was an Area-sneak leary and sly;  
  B was a Buzgloak, with fingers so fly;  
  C was a Cracksman, that forked all the plate;  
  D was a Dubsman, who kept the jug-gate.  
  For we are rollicking chaps,  
  All smoking, singing, boozing;  
  We care not for the traps,  
  But pass the night carousing!  
  E was an Efter,   target="#ENG18460_N054"/  that went to the play;  
  F was a Fogle he knapped on his way;  
  G was a Gag, which he told to the beak;  
  H was a Hum-box,   target="#ENG18460_N055"/  where parish-prigs speak.   
    Chorus.    
  I was an Ikey   target="#ENG18460_N056"/  , with swag all encumbered;  
  J was a Jug, in whose cell he was lumbered;  
  K was a Kye-bosh,   target="#ENG18460_N057"/  that paid for his treat;  
  L was a Leaf   target="#ENG18460_N058"/  that fell under his feet.  
    Chorus.    
  M was a Magsman, frequenting Pall-Mall;  
  N was a Nose that turned chirp on his pal;  
  O was an Onion   target="#ENG18460_N059"/  , possessed by a swell;  
  P was a Pannie, done niblike and well.  
    Chorus.    
  Q was a Queer-screen, that served as a blind;   target="#ENG18460_N060"/ 
  
  R was a Reader   target="#ENG18460_N061"/  . with flimsies well lined;  
  S was a Smasher, so nutty and spry;  
  T was a Ticker   target="#ENG18460_N062"/  , just faked from a cly.  
    Chorus.    
  U was an Up-tucker   target="#ENG18460_N063"/  , fly with the cord;  
  V was a Varnisher   target="#ENG18460_N064"/ , dressed like a lord;  
  Y was a Yoxter  that eat caper sauce:   target="#ENG18460_N066"/   
  Z was a Ziff  who was flashed on the horse.   target="#ENG18460_N068"/   
  For we are rollicking chaps  
  All smoking, singing, boozing:  
  We care not for the traps,  
  But pass the night carousing.   target="#ENG18460_N069"/   
  
  In this manner did the three thieves pass the first hours of morning at the old house in
      Chick Lane.  
  At length the heavy and sonorous voice of Saint Paul's proclaimed six o'clock. It still
      wanted an hour to sun-rise; but they now thought it prudent to separate.  
  Tom the Cracksman and Dick Flairer arranged together a "little piece of business" for the
      ensuing night, which they hoped would prove more fortunate than their attempt on the villa at
      Upper Clapton; but Dick faithfully promised Bill Bolter to return to him in the evening before
      he set out on the new expedition.  
  Matters being thus agreed upon, the moment for the murderer's concealment arrived. We have
      before stated that the entire grate in the room which the villains frequented, could be
      removed; and that, when taken out of its setting, it revealed an aperture of considerable
      dimensions. At the bottom of this square recess was a trap-door, communicating with a narrow
      and spiral staircase, that led into a vault adjoining and upon the same level with the very
      cellar from which Walter Sydney had so miraculously escaped.  
  The possibility of such an architectural arrangement being fully carried out, with a view to
      provide a perfect means of concealment, will be apparent to our readers, when we state that
      the side of the house farthest from the Fleet Ditch was constructed with a double brick wall,
      and that the spiral staircase consequently stood between those two partitions. The mode in
      which the huge chimneys were built, also tended to ensure the complete safety of that strange
      hiding-place, and to avert any suspicion that might for a moment be entertained of the
      existence of such a retreat in that old house.  
  Even in case the secret of the moveable grate should be discovered, the eye of the most
      acute thief-taker would scarcely detect the trap-door at the bottom of the recess, so
      admirably was it made to correspond with the brick-work that formed its frame.  
  The vault with which the spiral staircase corresponded, was about fourteen feet long by
      two-and-a-half wide. An iron grating of eight inches square, overlooking the Fleet Ditch, was
      all the means provided to supply that living tomb with fresh—we cannot say pure—air. If the
      atmosphere of the hiding-place were thus neither wholesome nor pleasant, it did not at least
      menace existence; and a residence in that vault for even weeks and weeks together was deemed
      preferable to the less "cribbed, cabined, and confined" sojourn of Newgate.  
  But connected with the security of this vault was one fearful condition. The individual who
      sought its dark solitude, could not emancipate himself at will. He was entirely at the mercy
      of those confederates who were entrusted with his secret. Should anything happen to these
      men,—should they be suddenly overtaken by the hand of death, then starvation must be the
      portion of the inmate of that horrible vault: and should they fall into the hands of justice,
      then the only service they could render their companion in the living tomb, would be to reveal
      the secret of his hiding-place.  
  Up to the time of which we are writing, since the formation of that strange lurking-hole in
      the days of the famous Jonathan Wild, three or four persons had alone availed themselves of
      the vault as a means of personal concealment. In the first place, the secret existed but with
      a very few and secondly, it was only in cases where life and death were concerned that a
      refuge was sought in so fearful an abode.  
  When the grate was removed and the trap-door was opened, the entire frame of Bill Bolter
      became suddenly convulsed with horror. He dreaded to be left to the mercy of his own
      reflections!  
  "It's infernally damp," said Bill, his teeth chattering as much with fear as with the
      cold.  
  Fearful, however, of exciting the disgust and contempt of his companions at what might be
      termed his pusillanimous conduct, he mustered up all his courage, shook hands with the
      Cracksman and Flairer, and then insinuated his person through the aperture.  
  "You may as well take the pipes and baccy along with you, old feller," returned Dick.  
  "And here's a thimble-full of brandy left in the flask," added the Cracksman.  
  "This evenin' I'll bring you a jolly wack of the bingo," said Flairer.  
  Provided with the little comforts just specified, the murderer descended the spiral
      staircase into the vault.  
  The trap-door closed above his head; and the grate was replaced with more than usual care
      and caution.  
    
  
  CHAPTER XXIV. CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.  
  LET us now return to Mr. Whittingham, whom we left in serious and unfeigned tribulation at
      the moment when his young master was taken into custody upon the charge of passing a forged
      note.  
  The Bow Street runner whom the officer had left behind to search the house, first possessed
      himself of the two letters which were lying upon the table in Markham's library, and which
      were addressed respectively to Mrs. Arlington and Mr. Monroe. The functionary then commenced a
      strict investigation of the entire premises; and, at the end, appeared marvellously surprised
      that he had not found a complete apparatus for printing forged notes, together with a quantity
      of the false articles themselves. This search, nevertheless, occupied three hours; and, when
      it was over, he took his departure, quite sulky because he had nothing to offer as evidence
      save the two sealed letters, which might be valuable in that point of view, or might not.  
  The moment this unwelcome guest had quitted the house, the butler, notwithstanding the
      lateness of the hour—for it was now dusk—ordered the market cart to be got ready; and, with
      the least possible delay, he proceeded into town.  
  Upon his arrival in Bow Street, he found the police-office closed: but upon enquiry he
      learnt that the investigation of Richard Markham's case had been postponed until the following
      morning at eleven o'clock, the prisoner having declared that he could produce a witness who
      would satisfactorily show his (the prisoner's) entire innocence in the transaction. In the
      meantime, he had been removed to Clerkenwell Prison.  
  Without asking another question, Whittingham mounted his cart once more, and drove away at a
      rattling pace to Clerkenwell Prison. There he began to thunder like a madman at the knocker of
      the governor's private entrance, and could hardly believe his senses when a servant-girl
      informed him that it was past the hours to see the prisoners. Whittingham would have
      remonstrated; but the girl slammed the door in his face. He accordingly had no alternative
      save to drive direct home again.  
  The very next morning at nine o'clock Mr. Whittingham entered the   Servants' Arms  
      Tavern; and with but little of his usual circumlocution and verbosity, enquired the address of
      Mr. Mac Chizzle, the lawyer, who had been one of the party at that house the evening but one
      before.  
  "Here is his card," said the landlord. "He uses my house reglar, and is a out-and-out
      practitioner."  
  Whittingham did not wait to hear any further eulogium upon the attorney. It had struck him
      that his young master might require a "professional adviser:" and having the supreme felicity
      of being totally unacquainted with the entire fraternity, he had felt himself somewhat puzzled
      how to supply the   desideratum  . In this dilemma, he had suddenly bethought himself of
      Mac Chizzle; and, without waiting to ponder upon the propriety of the step he was taking, he
      rushed off in the manner described to procure that individual's address.  
  "Well, what do you want?" cried the lawyer, who was astonished at the unceremonious manner
      in which Whittingham suddenly rushed into his office: "what do you want?"  
  "Law," was the laconic answer.  
  "Well, you can have plenty of that here," said Mr. Mac Chizzle. "But—I think you are the
      gentleman with whom I had the pleasure of passing a pleasant evening at the   Servants'
       Arms  , a day or two ago."  
  "The indentical same," returned Whittingham, flinging his hat upon the floor and himself
      into a chair.  
  "Take time to breathe, sir," said the lawyer. "If you're come for advice you couldn't have
      selected a better shop; but I must tell you before-hand that mine is quite a ready money
      business."  
  "Very good, sir. I'll tell you my story first and foremost; and you can then explain the
      most legible means of preceeding. I want law and justice."  
  "  Law   you can have in welcome; but whether you will obtain   justice   is
      another consideration."  
  "I'm bewildered in a labyrinth of mazes, sir," said the butler. "I always opiniated that law
      and justice was the same thing."  
  "Quite the reverse, I can assure you. Law is a human invention: justice is a divine
      inspiration. What is law to-day, is not law to-morrow; and yet everything is still denominated
         justice  . A creditor asks for justice when he appeals to a tribunal against his
      debtor; and how is that justice awarded? Why—if a man can't pay five pounds, the law
      immediately makes his debt ten pounds; and if he can't live out of doors, the law immediately
      shuts him up in prison by way of helping him out of his difficulties. That is law, sir; but it
      is not justice."  
  "Right, sir—very right."  
  "  Law  , you see, sir," continued Mac Chizzle, who was particularly fond of hearing
      himself talk,—"  law   is omnipotent, and beats   justice   to such an extreme, that
      justice would be justified in bringing an action of assault and battery against law. Law even
      makes religion, sir; and gives the attributes of the Deity; for no one dares assert that God
      possesses a quality or a characteristic, unless in conformity with the law. And as these laws
      are always changing, so of course does the nature of the deity, as established by the law,
      vary too; so that men may be said to go to heaven or to another place by the turnpike-roads
      laid down by the law."  
  "I like your reasonable powers amazingly," said the butler, somewhat impatiently; "and I
      will now proceed to unfold the momentary object of my visit."  
  "Give yourself breathing time, my dear sir. As I was observing,   Law   is more
      powerful than even   Justice   and   Religion  ; and I could now show that it
      exercises the same predominating influence over   Morality   also. For instance, Law, and
      not Conscience, defines virtues and vices. If I murder you, I commit a crime; but the
      executioner who puts me to death for the action, does   not   commit a crime. Neither
      does the soldier who kills his fellow-creature in battle. Thus, murder is only a crime when it
      is not legalised by human statutes,—or, in plain terms, when it is not according to law."  
  "I comprehend, sir," said Whittingham; and, seeing that Mr. Mac Chizzle now paused at
      length, he narrated the particulars of his master's arrest upon an accusation of passing a
      forged note for five hundred pounds.  
  "This is an ugly case, Mr. Whittingham."  
  "You must go down to him at Bow-Street: his case comes on at eleven o'clock."  
    
  "Construct counsel!" ejaculated Whittingham; "I want you to get him liberated at once."  
  "Ah! I dare say you do," said the lawyer, coolly. "That is often more easily said than done.
      From what you have told me I should not wonder if your master was committed for trial."  
  "But he is innocent, sir—he is innocent—as the young lamb in the meadows which is unborn!"
      cried Whittingham. "Master Richard would no more pass a fictious note than I should endeavour
      to pass a race-horse if I was mounted on a donkey."  
  Mr. Mac Chizzle smiled, and summoned his clerk by the euphonious name of "Simcox." Mr.
      Simcox was somewhat slow in making his appearance; and when he did, a very comical one it
      was—for his hair was red, his eyes were green, his countenance was studded with freckles, and
      his eye-lashes were white.  
  "Simcox," said Mr. Mac Chizzle, "I am going out for a few hours. If the gentleman calls
      about the thousand pound bill, tell him that I can get it discounted for him, for fifty pounds
      in money and eight hundred in wine—which allows a hundred and fifty for discount and
         my   commission. If the lady calls whose husband has run away from her, tell her that
      I've sent to Paris to make enquiries after him, and that if she'll leave another fifty pounds,
      I'll send to Vienna. By-the-bye, that bothering fellow Smith is certain to call: tell him I'm
      gone into the country, and shall be away for a fortnight. If Jenkins calls, tell him I shall
      be home at five and he must wait, as I want to see him."  
  "Very well, sir," said Simcox. "And if the gentleman calls about the loan."  
  "Why, that I shall see a party about it this evening. The first party declines; but I have
      another party in view."  
  Somehow or another, men of business have always got a particular "party" in view to
      accomplish a particular purpose, and they are always being disappointed by their "parties"—-
      whom, by-the-bye, they never condescended to name. To be "deceived by a party;" or "having a
      party to meet;" or "being engaged so long with a particular party," are excuses which will
      last as long as business itself shall exist, and will continue to be received as apologies as
      long as any apologies are received at all. They will wear out every other lie.  
  Whittingham was too much occupied by the affairs of his master, to pay any attention to the
      orders which the solicitor gave his clerk; and he was considerably relieved when he found
      himself by the side of his professional adviser, rolling along the streets in a cabriolet.  
  At length the lawyer and the faithful domestic were set down at the Police-Office in Bow
      Street; and in a few moments they were admitted, in the presence of a policeman, to an
      interview with Markham in one of the cells attached to the establishment.  
  Richard's countenance was pale and care-worn: his hair was dishevelled; and his attire
      seemed put on slovenly. But these circumstances scarcely attracted the eyes of Whittingham:—a
      more appalling and monstrous spectacle engrossed all the attention of that faithful old
      dependant; and this was the manacle which confined his reverend master's hands together.  
  Whittingham wept.  
  "Oh! Master Richard," he exclaimed in a voice broken by sobs, "what an unforeseen and
      perfidious adventure is this! You surely never could—no, I know you didn't!"  
  "Do not grieve yourself, my faithful friend," said Richard, deeply affected: "my innocence
      will soon be proved. I have sent for Mr. Chichester, who will be here presently: and he can
      shew in one moment how I became possessed of the two notes."  
  "Two notes!" cried Whittingham.  
  "Yes—I had another of fifty pounds' value in my purse, which I also received from
      Chichester, and which has turned out to be a spurious one. Doubtless he has been deceived
      himself——"  
  "Oh! that ere Winchester, or Kidderminster—or whatever his name may be," interrupted the
      butler, a strange misgiving oppressing his mind: "I'm afeard he won't do the thing that's
      right. But here is a profound adwiser, Master Richard, that I've brought with me; and he'll
      see law done, he says—and I believe him too."  
  Markham and Mac Chizzle then entered into conversation together: but scarcely had the
      unfortunate young man commenced his account of the peculiar circumstances in which he was
      involved, when the jailor entered to conduct him into the presence of the magistrate.  
  Markham was placed in the felon's dock; and Mr. Mac Chizzle intimated to the sitting
      magistrate, in a simpering tone, that he appeared for the prisoner.  
  Now we must inform our readers that Mac Chizzle was one of those low pettifoggers, who,
      without being absolutely the black sheep of the profession, act upon the principle "that all
      are fish that come to their net," and practise indiscriminately in the civil and the criminal
      courts—conduct a man's insolvency, or defend him before the magistrate—discount bills and
      issue no end of writs—act for loan societies and tally shops—in a word, undertake anything
      that happens to fall in their way, so long as it brings grist to the mill.  
  Mr. Mac Chizzle was not, therefore, what is termed "a respectable solicitor;" and the
      magistrate's countenance assumed an appearance of austerity—for he had previously been
      possessed in Markham's favour—when that individual announced that he appeared for the
      prisoner. Thus poor Whittingham, in his anxiety to do his beloved master a great deal of good,
      actually prejudiced his case materially at its outset.  
  Though unhappy and care-worn, Richard was not downcast. Conscious innocence supported him.
      Accordingly when he beheld Mr. Chichester enter the witness-box, he bowed to him in a friendly
      and even grateful manner; but, to his ineffable surprise, that very fashionable gentleman
      affected not to notice the salutation.  
   crime now alleged against him, as the motive of his flight.  
  Markham was certainly astounded when he heard the stress laid upon those letters by the
      solicitor for the prosecution, and the manner in which their real meaning was made to tell
      against him.  
  The Magistrate called upon him for his defence; and Markham, forgetful that Mac Chizzle was
      there to represent him, addressed himself in an earnest tone to Mr. Chichester, exclaiming,
      "You can now set me right in the eyes of the magistrate, and in the opinion of even the
      prosecuting counsel, who seems so anxious to distort every circumstance to my
      disadvantage."  
  "I really am not aware," said Mr. Chichester, caressing his chin in a very
         nonchalant   manner, "that I can throw any light upon this subject."  
  "All I require is the truth," ejaculated Richard, surprised at the tone and manner of his
      late friend. "Did you not give me that note for five hundred pounds to change for you? and did
      I not receive the second note from you in exchange for fifty sovereigns?"  
  Mr. Chichester replied in an indignant negative.  
  The magistrate shook his head: the prosecuting solicitor took snuff significantly;—Mac
      Chizzle made a memorandum;—and Whittingham murmured, "Ah! that mitigated villain
      Axminster."  
  "What do I hear!" exclaimed Richard: "Mr. Chichester your memory must fail you sadly. I
      suppose you recollect the occasion upon which Mr. Talbot gave you the five hundred pound
      note?"  
  "Mr. Talbot never gave me any note at all," answered Chichester, in a measured and
      determined manner.  
  "It is false—false as hell!" cried Markham, more enraged than alarmed; and he forthwith
      detailed to the magistrate the manner in which he had been induced to change the one note, and
      had become possessed of the other.  
  "This is a very lame story, indeed," said the magistrate; "and you must try and see if you
      can get a jury to believe it. You stand committed."  
  Before Richard could make any reply, he was lugged out of the dock by the jailor; the next
      case was called on; and he was hurried back to his cell, whither Mac Chizzle and the butler
      were permitted to follow him.  
  
  CHAPTER XXV. THE ENCHANTRESS.  
  "Oh! how can I prove my innocence now?" exclaimed Richard, wringing his hands, and walking
      hastily up and down the cell: "how shall I convince the world that a fearful combination of
      circumstances has so entangled me in this net, that never was man so wronged before? how can I
      communicate my dread position to Monroe? how ever again look society in the face? how live
      after this exposure—this disgrace?"  
  "Master Richard, Master Richard," cried the poor old butler, "don't take on so—don't now!
      Your innocence must conspire on the day of trial, and the jury will do you justice. Now, don't
      take on so, Master Richard—pray don't!"  
  As the faithful domestic uttered these words, the tears chased each other so rapidly down
      his cheeks that he seemed to need consolation quite as much as his master.  
  "Oh! that villain Chichester—the wretch—the cheat!" continued Richard; "and no doubt his
      vulgar companion Talbot is as bad. And the baronet—perhaps he also——"  
  Markham stopped short, and seated himself upon the bench. He suddenly became very faint and
      turned ashy pale. Whittingham hastened to loosen his shirt-collar, and the policeman present
      humanely procured a glass of water.  
  In a few minutes he recovered: and he then endeavoured to contemplate with calmness the full
      extent of the perils which environed him. His opinion of Chichester and Talbot was already
      formed: but the baronet—could he have been a party to their scheme of villany? After a
      moment's reflection, he answered the question to himself in an affirmative.  
  He had, then, fallen into a nest of adventurers and swindlers. But Diana—oh! no, she could
      not have been cognizant of the treacherous designs practised against him: she was doubtless
      made use of as an instrument to further the plans of the conspirators!  
  Such were his convictions. Should he, then, give her due warning in time, and afford her an
      opportunity of abandoning, ere it might be too late, an individual who would doubtless involve
      her, in the long run, in infamy and peril?  
  To pen a hasty note to Mrs. Arlington was now a duty which he conceived entailed upon him,
      and which he immediately performed. He then wrote a letter to Mr. Monroe, detailing the
      particulars of his unfortunate position, and beseeching him not to be prejudiced against him
      by the report which he might read in the newspapers the following day.  
  "Whittingham, my old friend," said Markham, when he had disposed of these matters; "we must
      now separate for the present. This letter for Mr. Monroe you will forward by post: the other,
      to Mrs. Arlington, you will take yourself to Bond Street, and deliver into her own hand."
      Then, addressing himself to Mac Chizzle, he observed, "I thank you, sir, for your attendance
      here to-day. Whittingham will give you the address of my guardian, Mr. Monroe; and that
      gentleman will consult with you upon the proper course to be pursued. He will also answer any
      pecuniary demands you may have occasion to make upon him."  
  Richard had preserved an unnatural degree of calmness as he uttered these words; and
      Whittingham was himself astonished at the coolness with which his young master delivered his
      instructions. The old butler wept bitterly when he took leave of "Master Richard;" and it cost
      the young man himself no inconsiderable effort to restrain his own tears.  
  "What is raly your inferential opinion in this matter?" demanded the butler of the lawyer,
      as they issued from the door of the police-office together.  
  "Why, that it was a capital scheme to raise the wind, and a very great pity that it did not
      succeed to a far greater extent," cried the professional adviser.  
  "Well, if you put that opinion down in your bill and charge six-and-eightpence for it," said
      Whittingham, with a very serious countenance, "I shall certainly dispute the item, and
      computate it, when I audit the accounts."  
  "I am really at a loss to comprehend you," said the lawyer. "Of course there are no secrets
      between you and me: indeed, you had much better tell me the whole truth——"  
  "Truth!" ejaculated Whittingham: "of course I shall tell you the truth."  
   the lawyer. "I suppose that you were in the plant, and divided the swag?"  
  Mr. Whittingham stared at the professional man with the most unfeigned astonishment, which,
      indeed, was so great that it checked all reply.  
  "Well," proceeded the shrewd Mr. Mac Chizzle, "it wasn't a bad dodge either. And I suppose
      that this Monroe is a party to the whole concern?"  
  "Is it possible, Mr. Mac Chizzle," exclaimed the butler, "that ——"  
  "But the business is awkward—very awkward," added the solicitor, shaking his head. "It was
      however fortunate that nothing transpired to implicate you also. When one pal is at large, he
      can do much for another who is in lavender. It would have been worse if you had been lumbered
      too—far worse."  
  "Plant—pal—lumbered—lavender!" repeated Whittingham, with considerable emphasis on each word
      as he slowly uttered it. "I suppose you raly think my master is guilty of the crime computed
      to him?"  
  "Of course I do," replied Mac Chizzle: "I can see as far into a brick wall as any one."  
  "Well, it's of no use argufying the pint," said the butler, after a moment's pause. "Here is
      Mr. Monroe's address: perhaps when you have seen him, you will arrive at new inclusions."  
  Mr. Whittingham then took leave of the solicitor, and proceeded to Bond Street.  
  Within a few yards of the house in which Mrs. Arlington resided, the butler ran against an
      individual who, with his hat perched jauntily on his right ear, was lounging along.  
  "Holloa, you fellow!" ejaculated Mr. Thomas Sugget—for it was he—"what do you mean by coming
      bolt agin a gen'leman in that kind of way?"  
  "Oh! my dear sir," cried Whittingham, "is that you? I am raly perforated with delight to see
      you."  
  Mr. Suggett gave a good long stare at Mr. Whittingham, and then exclaimed "Oh! it is you—is
      it? Well, I must say that your legs are in a very unfinished condition."  
  "How, sir—how?" demanded the irritated butler.  
  "Why, they want a pair of fetters, to be sure," said Suggett; and breaking into a
      horse-laugh, he passed rapidly on.  
  Whittingham felt humiliated; and the knock that he gave at the door of Diana's lodgings was
      sneaking and subdued. In a few minutes, however, he was ushered into a back room on the first
      floor, where Mrs. Arlington received him.  
  "Here is a letter, ma'am, which I was to deliver only into your own indentical hand."  
  "Is it—is it from your master?" demanded the Enchantress.  
  "It is, ma'am."  
  "Where   is   Mr. Markham?" asked Diana, receiving the letter with a trembling
      hand.  
  "He is now in Bow-street Police-Office, ma'am: in the course of the day he will be in
      Newgate;"—and the old butler wiped away a tear.  
  "Good heavens!" exclaimed Diana; "then it is really too true!"  
  She immediately tore open the letter, and ran her eye over the contents, which were as
      follow:—  
  
  "The villany of one of the individuals with whom you are constantly associating, and in
       whom it has been my misfortune to place unlimited confidence, will perhaps involve you in an
       embarrassment similar to the one in which I am now placed. I cannot, I do not for one moment
       imagine that you are in any way conversant with their vile schemes:—I can read your heart; I
       know that you would scorn such a confederacy. Your frankness, your candour are in your
       favour: your countenance, which is engraven upon my memory, and which I behold at this moment
       as if it were really before me, forbids all suspicions injurious to your honour. Take a
       timely warning, then: take warning from one who wishes you well: and dissolve the connexion
       ere it be too late.  
  "R. M."  
  
  "When shall you see your master again?" enquired Diana of the butler, after the perusal of
      this letter.  
  "To-morrow, ma'am—with the blessing of God."  
  "My compliments to him—my very best remembrances," said Mrs. Arlington; "and I feel deeply
      grateful for this communication."  
  Whittingham bowed, and rose to depart.  
  "And," added Diana, after a moment's pause, "if there be anything in which my humble
      services can be made available, pray do not hesitate to come to me. Indeed, I hope you will
      call—often—and let me know how this unfortunate business proceeds."  
  "Then you don't believe that Master Richard is capable of this obliquity, madam?" cried the
      butler.  
  "Oh! no—impossible!" said Diana emphatically.  
  "Thank 'ee, ma'am, thank 'ee," exclaimed Whittingham: "you have done my poor old heart good.
      God bless you, ma'am—God bless you!"  
  And with these words the faithful dependant took his departure, not a little delighted to
      think that there was at least one person in the world who believed in the innocence of "Master
      Richard." In fact, the kindness of Diana's manner and the sincerity with which she had
      expressed herself on that point, effectually wiped away from the mind of the butler the
      reminiscences of Mac Chizzle's derogatory suspicions, and Suggett's impertinence.  
  After a few minutes' profound reflection, Diana returned to the drawing-room, where Sir
      Rupert Harborough, Mr. Chichester, and Talbot were seated.  
  Her fine countenance wore an expression of melancholy seriousness; and there was a nervous
      movement of the under lip that denoted the existence of powerful emotions in her bosom.  
  "Well, Di.," exclaimed the baronet; "you seem annoyed."  
  "You will be surprised, gentlemen, when I inform you who has been here," she said, resuming
      her seat upon the sofa.  
  "Indeed!" cried Chichester, turning pale: "who could it be?"  
  "Not an officer, I hope?" exclaimed the baronet.  
  "The chimley-sweeps, perhaps," suggested Mr. Talbot.  
  "A person from Mr. Markham," said Diana, seriously. "By his appearance I should conceive him
      to be the faithful old servant of his family, of whom I have heard him speak."  
  "Whittingham, I'll be bound!" ejaculated Chichester. "And what did he want?"  
  "He brought me a letter from his master," returned Diana. "You may read it, if you
      please."  
  And she tossed it contemptuously towards Chichester.  
  "Read out," cried Talbot.  
  Mr. Chichester read the letter aloud, as he was requested.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "You cannot but admit that his letter is couched in a most friendly manner," said the lady,
      somewhat bitterly.  
  "Friendly be hanged!" cried the baronet. "I dare say you feel a most profound and sisterly
      sympathy for the young gaol-bird. After all, your profuse expenditure and extravagance helped
      to involve me in no end of pecuniary trouble; and I was compelled to have recourse to any
      means to obtain money. Somebody must suffer;—better Markham than any one of us."  
  "You do well, sir, to reproach me for being the cause of your embarrassments," answered
      Diana, her countenance becoming almost purple with indignation. "Have I not basely lent these
      rooms to your purposes, and acted as an attraction to the young men whom you have inveigled
      here to plunder at cards? I have never forgiven myself for the weakness which prompted me thus
      far to enter into your schemes. But when you informed me of your plans relative to the forged
      notes, I protested vehemently against so atrocious a measure. Indeed, had it not been for your
      solemn assurance that you had abandoned the idea—at all events so far as it concerned
      Markham—I would have placed him upon his guard—in spite of your threats, your menaces, your
      remonstrances!"  
  Diana had warmed as she proceeded; and by the time she reached the end of her reply to the
      baronet's villanous speech, she had worked herself up almost into a fury of rage and
      indignation. Her bosom heaved convulsively—her eyes dilated; and her lips expressed ineffable
      scorn.  
  "Perdition!" exclaimed the baronet: "the world is coming to a pretty pass when one's own
      mistress undertakes to give lessons in morality."  
  "A desperate necessity, sir," retorted Diana, "made me your mistress;—but I would sooner
      seek an asylum at the workhouse this moment, than become a partner in villany of this
      stamp."  
    
  With these words he rose and put on his hat.  
  Diana was about to answer this last brutal speech; but she determined not to provoke a
      discussion which only exposed her to the insolence of the man who was coward enough to
      reproach her with a frailty which had ministered to his pleasures. She bit her lips to
      restrain the burst of emotions which struggled for vent; and at that moment her bearing was as
      haughty and her aspect as proud as the superb dignity of incensed Juno.  
  "Come, Chichester," said the baronet, after a pause of a few minutes; "I shall be off.
      Talbot—this is no longer a place for any one of us. Madam," he added, turning with mock
      ceremony to Diana, "I wish you a very good afternoon. This is the last time you will ever see
      me in these apartments."  
  "I wish it to be so," said Diana, still stifling her rage with difficulty.  
  "And I need scarcely observe," exclaimed the baronet, "that after all that has passed
      between us——"  
  "Oh! I comprehend you, sir," interrupted the Enchantress, scornfully: "you need not fear
      me—your secrets are safe in my possession."  
  The baronet bowed and strode out of the room followed by Chichester and Talbot.  
  The Enchantress was then alone.  
  She threw herself at full length upon the sofa, and remained for a long time buried in
      profound thought. A tear started into her large blue eye; but she hastily wiped it away with
      her snowy handkerchief. From time to time her lips were compressed with scorn; and then a
      prolonged sigh would escape her breast.  
  Had she given a free vent to her tears, she would have experienced immediate relief: she
      endeavoured to stifle her passion—and it nearly suffocated her.  
  But how beautiful was she during that painful and fierce struggle with her feelings! Her
      countenance was flushed; and her eyes, usually so mild and melting, seemed to burn like two
      stars.  
  "No," she exclaimed, after a long silence, "I must not revenge myself that way! Up to the
      present moment, I have eaten   his   bread and have been to him as a wife; and I should
      be guilty of a vile deed of treachery were I to denounce him and his companions. Besides—who
      would believe my testimony, unsupported by facts, against the indignant denial of a man of
      rank, family, and title? I must stifle my resentment for the present. The hour of retribution
      will no doubt arrive, sooner or later; and Harborough shall yet repent the cruel—the cowardly
      insults he has heaped on my head this day!"  
  She paused, and again appeared to reflect profoundly. Suddenly a gleam of satisfaction
      passed over her countenance, and she started up to a sitting posture upon the sofa. The ample
      skirts of her dress were partly raised by her attitude, and revealed an exquisitely turned leg
      to the middle of the swell of the calf. The delicate foot, imprisoned in the flesh-coloured
      stocking of finest silk, tapped upon the carpet, in an agitated manner, with the tip of the
      glossy leather shoe.  
  That gleam of satisfaction which had suddenly appeared upon her countenance, gradually
      expanded into a glow of delight, brilliant and beautiful.  
  "Perhaps he thinks that I shall endeavour to win him back again to my arms," she said,
      musing aloud;—"perhaps he imagines that his countenance and support are imperatively necessary
      to me? Oh! no—Sir Rupert Harborough," she exclaimed, with a smile of triumph; "you may vainly
      await self-humiliation from me! To-morrow—yes, so soon as to-morrow shall you see that I can
      command a position more splendid than the one in which you placed me!"  
  Obeying the impulse of her feelings, she hastened to unlock an elegant rosewood
      writing-desk, edged with silver; and from a secret drawer she took several letters—or rather
      notes—written upon paper of different colours. Upon the various envelopes were seals impressed
      with armorial bearings, some of which were surmounted by coronets.  
  She glanced over each in a cursory manner, which shewed she was already tolerably familiar
      with their contents. The greater portion she tossed contemptuously into the fire;—a few she
      placed one upon the other, quite in a business-like way, upon the table.  
  When she had gone through the entire file, she again directed her attention to those which
      she had reserved; and as she perused them one after the other, she mused in the following
      manner:—  
  "Count de Lestranges is brilliant in his offers, and immensely rich—no doubt; but he is
      detestably conceited, and would think more of himself than of his mistress. His appeal must be
      rejected;" and she threw the French nobleman's perfumed epistle into the fire.  
  "This," she continued, taking up another, "is from Lord Templeton. Five thousand a-year is
      certainly handsome; but then he himself is so old and ugly! Away with this suitor at once."
      The English Peer's   billet-doux   followed that of the French Count.  
  "Here is a beautiful specimen of calligraphy," resumed Diana, taking up a third letter; "but
      all the sentiments are copied, word for word, out of the love-scenes in Anne Radcliffe's
      romances. Never was such gross plagiarism! He merits the punishment I thus inflict upon
      him;"—and her plump white hand crushed the epistle ere she threw it into the fire.  
  "But what have we here? Oh! the German baron's killing address—interspersed with remarks
      upon the philosophy of love. Ah! my lord, love was not made for philosophers—and philosophers
      are incapable of love; so we will have none of you."  
  Another offering to the fire.  
  "Here is the burning address of the Greek   attaché   with a hard name. It is prettily
      written;—but who could possibly enter upon terms with an individual of the name of
      Thesaurochrysonichochrysides?"  
  To the flames went the Greek lover's note also.  
  "Ah! this seems as if it were to be the successful candidate," said Diana, carefully
      perusing the last remaining letter. "It is written upon a plain sheet of white paper and
      without scent. But then the style—how manly! Yes—decidedly, the Earl of Warrington has gained
      the prize. He is rich—unmarried—handsome—and still in the prime of life! There is no room for
      hesitation."  
  The Enchantress immediately penned the following note:  
  
  "I should have replied without delay to your lordship's letter of yesterday week, but have
       been suffering severely from cold and bad spirits. The former has been expelled by my
       physician: the latter can only be forced to decamp by the presence of your lordship.  
  "  Diana Arlington.  "  
  
    
  At eight o'clock that evening, a brilliant equipage stopped at the door of the house in
      which Mrs. Arlington resided.  
  The Earl of Warrington alighted, and was forthwith conducted into the presence of the
      Enchantress.  
  And never was she more bewitching:—never had she appeared more transcendently lovely.  
  A dress of the richest black velvet, very low in the   corsage  , set off her
      voluptuous charms and displayed the pure and brilliant whiteness of the skin to the highest
      advantage. Her ears were adorned with pendants of diamonds; and a tiara glittering with the
      same precious stones, encircled her brow. There was a soft and languishing melancholy in her
      deep blue eyes and in the expression of her countenance, which formed an agreeable contrast to
      the dazzling loveliness of her person and the splendour of her attire.  
  She was enchanting indeed.  
  Need we say that the nobleman, who had already been introduced to her and admired her, was
      enraptured with the prize that thus surrendered itself to him?  
  Diana became the mistress of the Earl of Warrington, and the very next day removed to a
      splendid suite of apartments in Albemarle Street, while his lordship's upholsterers furnished
      a house for her reception.  
  
  CHAPTER XXVI. NEWGATE.  
    Newgate  ! what an ominous sound has that word.  
  And yet the horror exists not in the name itself; for it is a very simple compound, and
      would not grate upon the ear nor produce a shudder throughout the frame, were it applied to
      any other kind of building.  
  It is, then, its associations and the ideas which it conjures up that render the word
         Newgate   fearful and full of dark menace.  
  At the mere mention of this name, the mind instantaneously becomes filled with visions of
      vice in all its most hideous forms, and crime in all its most appalling shapes;—wards and
      court-yards filled with a population peculiar to themselves,—dark gloomy passages, where the
      gas burns all day long, and beneath the pavement of which are interred the remains of
      murderers and other miscreants who have expiated their crimes upon the scaffold,—shelves
      filled with the casts of the countenances of those wretches, taken the moment after they were
      cut down from the gibbet,—condemned cells,—the chapel in which funeral sermons are preached
      upon men yet alive to hear them, but who are doomed to die on the morrow,—the clanking of
      chains, the banging of huge doors, oaths, prayers, curses, and ejaculations of despair!  
  Oh! if it were true that the spirits of the departed are allowed to revisit the earth for
      certain purposes and on particular occasions,—if the belief of superstition were well founded,
      and night could be peopled with the ghosts and spectres of those who sleep in troubled
      graves,—what a place of ineffable horrors—what a scene of terrible sights, would Newgate be at
      midnight! The huge flag-stones of the pavement would rise, to permit the phantoms of the
      murderers to issue from their graves. Demons would erect a gibbet at the debtor's door; and,
      amidst the sinister glare of torches, an executioner from hell would hang these miscreants
      over again. This would be part of their posthumous punishment, and would occur in the
      long—long nights of winter. There would be no moon; but all the windows of Newgate looking
      upon the court-yards (and there are none commanding the streets) would be brilliantly lighted
      with red flames, coming from an unknown source. And throughout the long passages of the prison
      would resound the orgies of hell; and skeletons wrapped in winding sheets would shake their
      fetters; and Greenacre and Good—Courvoisier and Pegsworth—Blakesley and Marchant, with all
      their predecessors in the walks of murder, would come in fearful procession from the gibbet,
      returning by the very corridors which they traversed in their way to death on the respective
      mornings of their execution. Banquets would be served up to them in the condemned cells;
      demons would minister to them; and their food should be the flesh, and their drink the gore,
      of the victims whom they had assassinated upon earth!  
  All would be horrible—horrible!  
  But, heaven be thanked! such scenes are impossible; and never can it be given to the shades
      of the departed to revisit the haunts which they loved or hated—adored or desecrated, upon
      earth!  
    Newgate!  —fearful name!  
  And Richard Markham was now in Newgate.  
  He found, when the massive gates of that terrible prison closed behind him, that the
      consciousness of innocence will not afford entire consolation, in the dilemma in which unjust
      suspicions may involve the victim of circumstantial evidence. He scarcely knew in what manner
      to grapple with the difficulties that beset him;—he dared not contemplate the probability of a
      condemnation to some infamous punishment;—and he could scarcely hope for an acquittal in the
      face of the testimony that conspired against him.  
  He recalled to mind all the events of his infancy and his boyish years, and contrasted his
      present position with that which he once enjoyed in the society of his father and Eugene.  
  His brother?—aye—what had become of his brother?—that brother, who had left the paternal
      roof to seek his own fortunes, and who had made so strange an appointment for a distant date,
      upon the hill-top where the two trees were planted? Four years and four months had passed away
      since the day on which that appointment was made; and in seven years and eight months it was
      to be kept.  
  They were then to compare notes of their adventures and success in life, and decide who was
      the more prosperous of the two,—Eugene, who was dependent upon his own resources, and had to
      climb the ladder of fortune step by step;—or Richard, who, placed by his father's love
      half-way up that ladder, had only to avail himself, it would have seemed, of his advantageous
      position to reach the top at his leisure?  
  But, alas! probably Eugene was a miserable wanderer upon the face of the earth; perhaps he
      was mouldering beneath the sod that no parental nor fraternal tears had watered;—or haply he
      was languishing in some loathsome dungeon the doors of which served as barriers between him
      and all communion with his fellow-men!  
  It was strange—passing strange that Eugene had never written since his departure; and that
      from the fatal evening of his separation on the hill-top all traces of him should have been so
      suddenly lost.  
    
  Such were the topics of Markham's thoughts as he walked up and down the large paved
      court-yard belonging to that department of the prison to which he had been consigned;—and, of
      a surety, they were of no pleasurable description. Uncertainty with regard to his own
      fate—anxiety in respect to his brother—and the dread that his prospects in this life were
      irretrievably blighted—added to a feverish impatience of a confinement totally unmerited—all
      these oppressed his mind.  
  That night he had nothing but a basin of gruel and a piece of bread for his supper. He slept
      in the same ward with a dozen other prisoners, also awaiting their trials: his couch was hard,
      cold, and wretched; and he was compelled to listen to the ribald talk and vaunts of villany of
      several of his companions. Their conversation was only varied by such remarks as these:—  
  "Well," said one, "I hope I shan't get before the Common-Serjeant: he's certain to give me
      toko for yam."  
  "I shall be sure to go up the first day of sessions, and most likely before the Recorder, as
      mine is rather a serious matter," observed a second. "He won't give me more than seven years
      of it, I know."  
  "For my part," said a third, "I'd much sooner wait till the Wednesday, when the Judges come
      down: they never give it so severe as them City beaks."  
  "I tell you what," exclaimed a fourth, "I shouldn't like to have my meat hashed at evening
      sittings before the Commissioner in the New Court. He's always so devilish sulky, because he
      has been disturbed at his wine."  
  "Well, you talk of the regular judges that come down on the Wednesday," cried a fifth; "I
      can only tell you that Baron Griffin and Justice Spikeman are on the rota for next sessions;
      and I'm blowed if I wouldn't sooner go before the Common-Serjeant a thousand times, than have
      old Griffin meddle in my case. Why—if you only look at him, he'll transport you for twenty
      years."  
  At this idea all the prisoners who had taken part in this conversation, burst out into a
      loud guffaw—but not a whit the more hearty for being so boisterous.  
  "Is it possible," asked Markham, who had listened with some interest to the above
      discourse,—"is it possible that there can be any advantage to a prisoner to be tried by a
      particular judge?"  
  "Why, of course there is," answered one of the prisoners. "If a swell like you gets before
      Justice Spikeman, he'll let you off with half or a quarter of what the Recorder or
      Common-Serjeant would give you: but Baron Griffin would give you just double, because you
      happened to be well-dressed."  
  "Indeed!" ejaculated Markham, whose ideas of the marvellous equality and admirable
      even-handedness of English justice, were a little shocked by these revelations.  
  "Oh! yes," continued his informant, "all the world knows these things. If I go before
      Spikeman, I shall plead Guilty and whimper a bit, and he'll be very lenient indeed; but if I'm
      heard by Griffin I'll let the case take its chance, because he wouldn't be softened by any
      show of penitence. So you see, in these matters, one must shape one's conduct according to the
      judge that one goes before."  
  "I understand," said Markham: "even justice is influenced by all kinds of
      circumstances."  
  The conversation then turned upon the respective merits of the various counsel practising at
      the Central Criminal Court.  
  "I have secured Whiffins," said one: "he's a capital fellow—for if he can't make anything
      out of your case, he instantly begins to bully the judge."  
  "Ah! but that produces a bad effect," observed a second; "and old Griffin would soon put him
      down. I've got Chearnley—he's such a capital fellow to make the witnesses contradict
      themselves."  
  "Well, I prefer Barkson," exclaimed a third; "his voice alone frightens a prosecutor into
      fits."  
  "Smouch and Slike are the worst," said a fourth: "the judges always read the paper or fall
      asleep when they address them."  
  "Yes—because they are such low fellows, and will take a brief from any one," exclaimed a
      fifth; "whereas it is totally contrary to etiquette for a barrister to receive instructions
      from any one but an attorney."  
  "The fact is that such men as Smouch and Slike do a case more harm than good, with the
      judges," observed a sixth. "They haven't the ear of the Court—and that's the real truth of
      it."  
  These remarks diminished still more the immense respect which Markham had hitherto
      entertained for English justice; and he now saw that the barrister who detailed plain and
      simple facts, did not stand half such a good chance of saving his client as the favoured one
      "who possessed the ear of the Court."  
  By a very natural transition, the discourse turned upon petty juries.  
  "I think it will go hard with me," said one, "because I am tried in the City. I wish I had
      been committed for the Middlesex Sessions at Clerkenwell."  
  "Why so!" demanded another prisoner.  
  "Because, you see, I'm accused of robbing my master; and as all the jurymen are substantial
      shopkeepers, they're sure to convict a man in my position,—even if the evidence isn't
      complete."  
  "I'm here for swindling tradesmen at the West-End of the town," said another.  
  "Well," exclaimed the first speaker, "the jury will let you off if there's the slightest
      pretence, because they're all City tradesmen, and hate the West-End ones."  
  "And I'm here for what is called '  a murderous assault upon a police-constable  ,'"
      said a third prisoner.  
  "Was he a Metropolitan or a City-Policeman?"  
  "A Metropolitan."  
  "Oh! well—you're safe enough; the jury are sure to believe that he assaulted you first."  
  "Thank God for that blessing!"  
  "I tell you what goes a good way with Old Bailey Juries—a good appearance. If a poor devil,
      clothed in rags and very ugly, appears at the bar, the Foreman of the Jury just says,
       '  Well, gentlemen, I think we may say  
  Guilty  ;   for my part I never saw such a hang-dog countenance in my life  .' But
      if a well-dressed and good-looking fellow is placed in the dock, the Foreman is most likely to
      say, '  Well, gentlemen, far my part I never can nor will believe that the prisoner could be
       guilty of such meanness: so I suppose we may say  
  Not Guilty  ,   gentlemen  .'"  
  "Can this be true?" ejaculated Markham.  
  "Certainly it is," was the reply. "I will tell you more, too. If a prisoner's counsel don't
      tip the jury plenty of soft sawder, and tell them that they are enlightened Englishmen, and
      that they are the main prop, not only of justice, but also of the crown itself, they will be
      certain to find a verdict of   Guilty    
  "What infamy!" cried Markham, perfectly astounded at these revelations.  
  "Ah! and what's worse still," added his informant, "is that Old Baily juries always, as a
      matter of course, convict those poor devils who have no counsel."  
  "And this is the vaunted palladium of justice and liberty!" said Richard.  
  In this way did the prisoners in Markham's ward contrive to pass away an hour or two, for
      they were allowed no candle and no fire, and had consequently been forced to retire to their
      wretched couches immediately after dusk.  
  The night was thus painfully long and wearisome.  
  Markham found upon enquiry that there were two methods of living in Newgate. One was to
      subsist upon the gaol allowance: the other to provide for oneself. Those who received the
      allowance were not permitted to have beer, nor were their friends suffered to add the
      slightest comfort to their sorry meals; and those who paid for their own food, were restricted
      as to quantity and quality.  
  Such is the treatment prisoners experience   before   they are tried;—and yet there is
      an old saying   that every one must be deemed innocent until he be proved guilty  . The
      old saying is a detestable mockery!  
  Of course Markham determined upon paying for his own food; and when Whittingham called in
      the morning, he was sent to make the necessary arrangements with the coffee-house keeper in
      the Old Bailey who enjoyed the monopoly of supplying that compartment of the prison.  
  The most painful ordeal which Richard had to undergo during his captivity in Newgate, was
      his first interview with Mr. Monroe. This gentleman was profoundly affected at the situation
      of his youthful ward, though not for one moment did he doubt his innocence.  
  And here let us mention another revolting humiliation and unnecessary cruelty to which the
         untried   prisoner is compelled to submit. In each yard is a small enclosure, or cage,
      of thick iron bars, covered with wire-work; and beyond this fence, at a distance of about two
      feet, is another row of bars similarly interwoven with wire. The visitor is compelled to stand
      in this cage to converse with his relative or friend, who is separated from him by the two
      gratings. All private discourse is consequently impossible.  
  What can recompense the prisoner who is acquitted, for all the mortifications, insults,
      indignities, and privations he has undergone in Newgate previous to that trial which
      triumphantly proclaims his innocence?  
  Relative to the interview between Markham and Monroe, all that it is necessary to state is
      that the young man's guardian promised to adopt all possible means to prove his innocence, and
      spare no expense in securing the most intelligent and influential legal assistance. Mr. Monroe
      moreover intimated his intention of removing the case from the bands of Mac Chizzle to those
      of a well-known and highly respectable solicitor. Richard declared that he left himself
      entirely in his guardian's hands, and expressed his deep gratitude for the interest thus
      demonstrated by that gentleman in his behalf.  
  Thus terminated the first interview in Newgate between Markham and his late father's
      confidential friend.  
  He felt somewhat relieved by this visit, and entertained strong hopes of being enabled to
      prove his innocence upon the day of trial.  
  But it then wanted a whole month to the next sessions—thirty horrible days which he would be
      compelled to pass in Newgate!  
  
  CHAPTER XXVII. THE REPUBLICAN AND THE RESURRECTION MAN.  
  AS Richard was walking up and down the yard, an hour or two after his interview with Mr.
      Monroe, he was attracted by the venerable appearance of an elderly gentleman who was also
      parading that dismal place to and fro.  
  This individual was attired in a complete suit of black; and his pale countenance, and long
      grey hair flowing over his coat-collar, were rendered the more remarkable by the mournful
      nature of his garb. He stooped considerably in his gait, and walked with his hands joined
      together behind him. His eyes were cast upon the ground; and his meditations appeared to be of
      a profound and soul-absorbing nature.  
  Markham immediately experienced a strange curiosity to become acquainted with this
      individual, and to ascertain the cause of his imprisonment. He did not, however, choose to
      interrupt that venerable man's reverie. Accident presently favoured his wishes, and placed
      within his reach the means of introduction to the object of his curiosity. The old gentleman
      changed his line of walk in the spacious yard, and tripped over a loose flagstone. His head
      came suddenly in contact with the ground. Richard hastened to raise him up, and conducted him
      to a bench. The old gentleman was very grateful for these attentions; and, when he was
      recovered from the effects of his fell, he surveyed Markham with the utmost interest.  
  "What circumstance has thrown you into this vile den?" he inquired, in a pleasant tone of
      voice.  
  Richard instantly related, from beginning to end, those particulars with which the reader is
      already acquainted.  
  The old man remained silent for some minutes, and then fixed his eyes upon Markham in a
      manner that seemed intended to read the secrets of his soul.  
  Richard did not quail beneath that eagle-glance; but a deep blush suffused his
      countenance.  
  "I believe you, my boy—I believe every word you have uttered," suddenly exclaimed the
      stranger: "you are the victim of circumstances; and deeply do I commiserate your
      situation."  
  "I thank you sincerely—most sincerely for your good opinion," said Richard. "And now, permit
      me to ask you what has plunged you into a gaol? No crime, I feel convinced before you
      speak!"  
   my sentence will not be severe, perhaps; but it will not be the less unjust. I
      am the friend of my fellow-countrymen and my fellow-creatures: the upright and the enlightened
      denominate me a philanthropist: my enemies denounce me as a disturber of the public peace, a
      seditious agitator, and a visionary. You have undoubtedly heard of Thomas Armstrong?"  
  "I have not only heard of you, sir," said Richard, surveying the great Republican writer
      with profound admiration and respect, "but I have read your works and your essays with
      pleasure and interest."  
  "In certain quarters," continued Armstrong, "I am represented as a character who ought to be
      loathed and shunned by all virtuous and honest people,—that I am a moral pestilence,—a social
      plague; and that my writings are only deserving of being burnt by the hands of the common
      hangman. The organs of the rich and aristocratic classes, level every species of coarse
      invective against me. And yet, O God!" he added enthusiastically, "I only strive to arouse the
      grovelling spirit of the industrious millions to a sense of the wrongs under which they
      labour, and to prove to them that they were not sent into this world to lick the dust beneath
      the feet of majesty and aristocracy!"  
  "Do you not think," asked Richard, timidly, "that you are somewhat in advance of the age? Do
      you not imagine that a republic would be dangerously premature?"  
  "My dear youth, let us not discuss this matter in a den where all our ideas are concentrated
      in the focus formed by our misfortunes. Let me rather assist you with my advice upon the mode
      of conduct you should preserve in this prison, so that you may not become too familiar with
      the common herd, nor offend by being too distant."  
  Mr. Armstrong then proffered his counsel upon this point.  
  "I feel deeply indebted to you for your kindness," exclaimed Markham: "very—very
      grateful!"  
  "Grateful!" cried the old man, somewhat bitterly. "Oh! how I dislike that word! The enemies
      who persecute me now, are those who have received the greatest favours from me. But there is
      one—one whose treachery and base ingratitude I never can forget—although I can forgive him!
      Almost four years ago, I accidentally learnt that a young man of pleasing appearance, genteel
      manners, and good acquirements, was in a state of the deepest distress, in an obscure lodging
      in Hoxton Old Town. I called upon him: the account which had reached my ears was too true. He
      was bordering upon starvation; and—although he assured me that he had relations and friends
      moving in a wealthy sphere—he declared that particular reasons, which he implored me not to
      dive into, compelled him to refrain from addressing them. I relieved his necessities; I gave
      him money, and procured him clothes. I then took him as my private secretary, and soon put the
      greatest confidence in him. Alas! how was I recompensed? He betrayed all my political secrets
      to the government: he literally sold me! At length he absconded, taking with him a
      considerable sum of money, which he abstracted from my desk."  
  "How despicable!" ejaculated Richard.  
  "That is not all, I met him afterwards, and forgave him!" said Armstrong.  
  "Ah! you possess, sir, a noble heart," cried Richard: "I hope that this misguided young man
      gave sincere proofs of repentance!"  
  "Oh! he was very grateful!" ejaculated Mr. Armstrong, with a satirical smile: "when he heard
      that there was a warrant issued for my apprehension, upon a charge of libel on the government,
      he secretly instructed the officers relative to my private haunts, and thus sold me
      again!"  
  "The villain!" cried Markham, with unfeigned indignation. "Tell me his name, that I may
      avoid him as I would a poisonous viper!"  
  "His name is George Montague," returned Mr. Armstrong.  
  "George Montague!" cried Richard.  
  "Do you know him? have you heard of him before? If you happen to be aware of his present
      abode—"  
  "You would send and have him arrested for the robbery of the money in your desk?"  
  "No—write and assure him of my forgiveness once more," replied the noble-hearted republican.
      "But how came you acquainted with his name?"  
  "I have heard of that young man before, but not in a way to do him honour. A tale of robbery
      and seduction—of heartless cruelty and vile deceit—has been communicated to me relative to
      this George Montague. Can you forgive such a wretch as he is?'  
  "From the bottom of my heart," answered the republican.  
  Markham gazed upon that venerable gentleman with profound respect. He remembered to have
      seen the daily Tory newspapers denounce that same old man as "an unprincipled agitator—the
      enemy of his country—the foe to morality—a political ruffian—a bloody-minded votary of
      Robespierre and Danton:"—and he now heard the sweetest and holiest sentiment of Christian
      morality emanate from the lips of him who had thus been fearfully represented. And that
      sentiment was uttered without affectation, but with unequivocal sincerity!  
  For a moment Richard forgot his own sorrows and misfortunes, as he contemplated the benign
      and holy countenance of him whom a certain class loved to depict as a demon incarnate!  
  The old man did not notice the interest which he had thus excited, for he had himself fallen
      into a profound reverie.  
  Presently the conversation was resumed; and the more that Markham saw of the Republican, the
      more did he respect and admire him.  
  In the course of the afternoon Markham was accosted by one of his fellow-prisoners, who
      beckoned him aside in a somewhat mysterious manner. This individual was a very short, thin,
      cadaverous-looking man, with coal-black hair and whiskers, and dark piercing eyes half
      concealed beneath shaggy brows of the deepest jet. He was apparently about five-and thirty
      years of age. His countenance was downcast; and when he spoke, he seemed as if he could not
      support the glance of the person whom he addressed. He was dressed in a seedy suit of black,
      and wore an oil-skin cap with a large shade.  
  This person, who was very reserved and retired in his habits, and seldom associated with his
      fellow-prisoners, drew Markham aside, and said, "I've taken a liberty with your name; but I
      know you won't mind it. In a place like this we must help and assist each other."  
  "And in what way—" began Markham.  
   and my old mother—who is known by the name of the Mummy—has promised to send me
      in presently a jolly good quartern loaf and three or four pound of Dutch cheese."  
  "But I thought that those who took the gaol allowance were not permitted to receive any food
      from outside?" said Markham.  
  "That's the very thing," said the man: "so I have told the Mummy to direct the parcel to
      you, as I know that you grub yourself at your own cost."  
  "So long as it does not involve me——"  
  "No—not in the least, my good fellow," interrupted the other. "And, in return," he added,
      after a moment's pause, "if I can ever do you a service, outside or in, you may reckon upon
      the Resurrection Man."  
  "The Resurrection Man!" ejaculated Richard, appalled, in spite of himself, at this ominous
      title.  
  "Yes—that's my name and profession," said the man. "My godfathers and godmothers called me
      Anthony, and my parents had previously blessed me with the honourable appellation of Tidkins:
      so you may know me as Anthony Tidkins, the Resurrection Man."  
  "And are you really——" began Richard, with a partial shudder; "are you really a——"  
  "A body-snatcher?" cried Anthony; "of course I am—when there's any work to be done; and when
      there isn't, then I do a little in another line."  
  "And what may that be?" demanded Markham.  
  This time the Resurrection Man   did   look his interlocutor full in the face; but it
      was only for a moment; and he again averted his glance in a sinister manner, as he jerked his
      thumb towards the wall of the yard, and exclaimed, "Crankey Jem on t'other side will tell you
      if you ask him. They would not put us together: no—no," he added, with a species of chuckle;
      "they know a trick worth two of that. We shall both be tried together: fifteen years for
      him—freedom for me! That's the way to do it."  
  With these words the Resurrection Man turned upon his heel, and walked away to the farther
      end of the yard.  
  We shall now take leave of Markham for the present: when we again call the reader's
      attention to his case, we shall find him standing in the dock of the Central Criminal Court,
      to take his trial upon the grave accusation of passing forged notes.  
  
  CHAPTER XXVIII. THE DUNGEON.  
  RETURN we now to Bill Bolter, the murderer, who had taken refuge in the subterranean
      hiding-place of the Old House in Chick Lane.  
  Heavily and wearily did the hours drag along. The inmate of that terrible dungeon was
      enabled to mark their lapse by the deep-mouthed bell of St. Sepulchre's Church, on Snow Hill,
      the sound of which boomed ominously at regular intervals upon his ear.  
  That same bell tolls the death-note of the convict on the morning of his execution at the
      debtors' door of Newgate.  
  The murderer remembered this, and shuddered.  
  A faint—faint light glimmered through the little grating at the end of the dungeon; and the
      man kept his eyes fixed upon it so long, that at length his imagination began to conjure up
      phantoms to appal him. That small square aperture became a frame in which hideous countenances
      appeared; and then, one gradually changed into another—horrible dissolving views that they
      were!  
  But chiefly he beheld before him the tall gaunt form of his murdered wife—with one eye
      smashed and bleeding in her head:—the other glared fearfully upon him.  
  This phantasmagoria became at length so fearful and so real in appearance, that the murderer
      turned his back towards the little grating through which the light struggled into the dungeon
      in two long, narrow, and oblique columns.  
  But then he imagined that there were goblins behind him; and this idea soon grew as
      insupportable as the first;—so he rose, and groped his way up and down that narrow vault—a
      vault which might become his tomb!  
  This horrible thought never left his memory. Even while he reflected upon other
      things,—amidst the perils which enveloped his career, and the reminiscences of the dread deeds
      of which he had been guilty,—amongst the reasons which he assembled together to convince
      himself that the hideous countenances at the grating did not exist in reality,—there was that
      one idea—unmixed—definite—standing boldly out from all the rest in his imagination,—  that
       he might be left to die of starvation!    
  At one time the brain of this wretch was excited to such a pitch that he actually caught his
      head in his two hands, and pressed it with all his force—to endeavour to crush the horrible
      visions which haunted his imagination.  
  Then he endeavoured to hum a tune; but his voice seemed to choke him. He lighted a pipe, and
      sate and smoked; but as the thin blue vapour curled upwards, in the faint light of the
      grating, it assumed shapes and forms appalling to behold. Spectres, clad in long winding
      sheets—cold grisly corpses, dressed in shrouds, seemed to move noiselessly through the
      dungeon.  
  He laid aside the pipe; and, in a state of mind bordering almost upon frenzy, tossed off the
      brandy that had remained in the flask.  
  But so full of horrible ideas was his mind at that moment, that it appeared to him as if he
      had been drinking blood!  
  He rose from his seat once more, and groped up and down the dungeon, careless of the almost
      stunning blows which he gave his head, and the violent contusions which his limbs received,
      against the uneven walls.  
  Hark! suddenly voices fell upon his ears.  
  He listened with mingled fear and joy,—fear of being discovered, and joy at the sound of
      human tones in the midst of that subterranean solitude.  
  Those voices came from the lower window of the dwelling on the other side of the ditch.  
  "How silent and quiet everything has been lately in the old home opposite," said a
      female.  
  "Last night—or rather early this morning, I heard singing there," replied another voice,
      which was evidently that of a young woman.  
  Oh! never had the human tones sounded so sweet and musical upon the murderer's ears
      before!  
  "It is very seldom that any one ever goes into that old house now," said the first
      speaker.  
  "Strange rumours are abroad concerning it: I heard that there are subterranean places in
      which men can conceal themselves, and no power on earth could find them save those in the
      secret."  
   about that very thing a few days ago; and he laughed at the idea. He says it is
      impossible; and of course he knows best."  
  "I am not so sure of that. Who knows what fearful deeds have those old walls concealed from
      human eye? For my part, I can very well believe that there are secret cells and caverns. Who
      knows but that some poor wretch is hiding there this very moment?"  
  "Perhaps the man that murdered his wife up in Union Court."  
  "Well—who knows? But at this rate we shall never get on with our work."  
  The noise of a window being shut down fell upon the murderer's ears: and he heard no
      more.  
  But he had heard enough! Those girls had spoken of him:—they had mentioned him as   the
       man who had murdered his wife  .  
  The assassination, then, was already known: the dread deed was bruited abroad:—thousands and
      thousands of tongues had no doubt repeated the tale here and there—conveying it hither and
      thither—far and wide!  
  And throughout the vast metropolis was he already spoken of as the   man who had murdered
       his wife  !  
  And in a few hours more, would millions in all parts hear of   the man who had murdered
       his wife  !  
  And already were the officers of justice actively in search of   the man who had murdered
       his wife  !  
  Heavily—heavily passed the hours.  
  At length the dungeon became pitch dark; and then the murderer saw sights more appalling
      than when the faint gleam stole through the grating.  
  In due time the sonorous voice of Saint Sepulchre proclaimed the hour of nine.  
  Scarcely had the last stroke of that iron tongue died upon the breeze, when a noise at the
      head of the spiral staircase fell upon the murderer's ears. The trap-door was raised, and the
      well-known voice of Dick Flairer was heard.  
  "Well, Bill—alive or dead, eh—old fellow!" exclaimed the burglar.  
  "Alive—and that's all, Dick," answered Bill Bolter, ascending the staircase.  
  "My God! how pale you are, Bill," said Dick, the moment the light of the candle fell upon
      the countenance of the murderer as he emerged from the trap-door.  
  "Pale, Dick!" ejaculated the wretch, a shudder passing over his entire frame; "I do not
      believe I can stand a night in that infernal hole."  
  "You must, Bill—you must," said Flairer: "all is discovered up in Union Court there, and the
      police are about in all directions."  
  "When was it found out? Tell me the particulars—speak!" said the murderer, with frenzied
      impatience.  
  "Why, it appears that the neighbours heard a devil of a noise in your room, but didn't think
      nothink about it, cos you and Polly used to spar a bit now and then. But at last the
      boy—Harry, I mean—went down stairs and said that his mother wouldn't move, and that his father
      had gone away. So up the neighbours went—and then everything was blown. The children was sent
      to the workus, and the coroner held his inquest this afternoon at three. Harry was had up
      before him; and—"  
  "And what?" demanded Bolter, hastily.  
  "And, in course," added Dick, "the Coroner got out of the boy ull the particklars: so the
      jury returned a verdict——"  
  "Of   Wilful Murder  , eh?" said Bill, sinking his voice almost to a whisper.  
  "  Wilful Murder against William Bolter  ," answered Dick, coolly.  
  "That little vagabond Harry!" cried the criminal—his entire countenance distorted with rage;
      "I'll be the death on him!"  
  "There's no news at all about t'other affair up at Clapton, and no stir made in it at all,"
      said Dick, after a moment's pause: "so that there business is all right. But here's a lot of
      grub and plenty of lush, Bill: that'll cheer ye, if nothink else will."  
  "Dick!" exclaimed the murderer, "I cannot go back into that hole—I had rather get nabbed at
      once. The few hours I have already been there have nearly drove me mad; and I can't—I won't
      attempt the night in that infernal cold damp vault. I feel as if I was in my coffin."  
  "Well, you know best," said Dick, coolly. "A hempen neckcloth at Tuck-up fair, and a leap
      from a tree with only one leaf, is what you'll get if you're perverse."  
  "My God—my God!" ejaculated Bolter, wringing his hands, and throwing glances of extreme
      terror around the room: "what am I to do? what am I to do?"  
  "Lie still down below for a few weeks, or go out and be scragged," said Dick Flairer. "Come,
      Bill, be a man; and don't take on in this here way. Besides, I'm in a hurry, and must be off.
      I've brought you enough grub for three days, as I shan't come here too often till the business
      has blowed over a little."  
  Bill Bolter took a long draught from a quart bottle of rum which his friend had brought with
      him; and he then felt his spirits revive. Horrible as the prospect of a long sojourn in the
      dungeon appeared, it was still preferable to the fearful doom which must inevitably follow his
      capture; and, accordingly, the criminal once more returned to his hiding-place.  
  Dick Flairer promised to return on the third evening from that time; and the trap-door again
      closed over the head of the murderer.  
  Bolter supped off a portion of the provisions which his friend had brought him, and then lay
      down upon the hard stone bench to sleep. A noisome stench entered the dungeon from the Ditch,
      and the rats ran over the person of the inmate of that subterranean hole. Repose was
      impossible; the miserable wretch therefore sate up, and began to smoke.  
  By accident he kicked his leg a little way beneath the stone bench: the heel of his boot
      encountered something that yielded to the touch; and a strange noise followed.  
  That noise was like the rattling of bones!  
  The pipe fell from the man's grasp; and he himself was stupefied with sudden terror.  
  At length, exercising immense violence over his feelings, he determined to ascertain whether
      the horrible suspicions which had entered his mind, were well-founded or not.  
  He thrust his hand beneath the bench, and encountered the mouldering bones of a human
      skeleton.  
  With indescribable feelings of agony and horror he threw himself upon the bench—his hair on
      end, and his heart palpitating violently.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  He slept not a wink throughout those live-long hours, the lapse of which was proclaimed by
      the voice of Saint Sepulchre's solemn and deep toned bell.  
  And none who heard the bell during that night experienced feelings of such intense anguish
      and horror as the murderer in his lurking-hole. Not even the neighbouring prison of Newgate,
      nor the hospital of Saint Bartholomew, nor the death-bed of a parent, knew mental suffering so
      terrible as that which wrung the heart of this guilty wretch.  
  The morning dawned; and the light returned to the dungeon.  
  The clock had just struck eight, and the murderer was endeavouring to force a mouthful of
      food down his throat, when the voice of a man in the street fell upon his ear. He drew close
      up to the grating, and clearly heard the following announcement:—  
  "  Here is a full and perfect account of the horrible assassination committed by the
       miscreant William Bolter, upon the person of his wife; with a portrait of the murderer, and a
       representation of the room as it appeared when the deed was first discovered by a neighbour.
       Only one Penny! The fullest and most perfect account—only one Penny!  "  
  A pause ensued, and then the voice, bawling more lustily than before, continued thus:—  
  "   then fractured her skull upon the floor. Only one Penny, together with a true
       portrait of the murderer, for whose apprehension a reward of One Hundred Pounds is offered!
       Only one Penny!  "  
  "A reward of one hundred pounds!" cried another voice: "my eye! how I should like to find
      him!"  
  "Wouldn't I precious soon give him up!" ejaculated a third.  
  "I wonder whereabouts he is," said a fourth. "No doubt that he has run away—perhaps to
      America—perhaps to France."  
  "That shews how much you know about such things," said a fifth speaker. "It is a very
      strange fact, that murderers always linger near the scene of their crime; they are attracted
      towards it, seemingly, as the moth is to the candle. Now, for my part, I shouldn't at all
      wonder if the miscreant was within a hundred yards of us at the present moment."  
  "  Only one Penny! The fullest and most perfect account of the horrible and bloody
       murder  ——"  
  The itinerant vender of pamphlets passed on, followed by the crowd which his vociferations
      had collected; and his voice soon ceased to break the silence of the morning.  
  Bolter sank down upon the stone bench, a prey to maddening feelings and fearful
      emotions.  
  A hundred pounds were offered for his capture! Such a sum might tempt even Dick Flairer or
      Tom the Cracksman to betray him.  
  Instinctively he put his fingers to his neck, to feel if the rope were there yet, and he
      shook his head violently to ascertain if he were hanging on a gibbet, or could still control
      his motions.  
  The words "miscreant," "horrible and bloody murder," and "portrait of the assassin," still
      rang in his ears—loud—sonorous—deep—and with a prolonged echo like that of a bell!  
  Already were men speculating upon his whereabouts, and anxious for his apprehension—some for
      the reward, others to gratify a morbid curiosity: already were the newspapers, the cheap
      press, and the pamphleteers busy with his name.  
  None now mentioned him save as   the miscreant William Bolter  .  
  Oh! if he could but escape to some foreign land,—if he could but avoid the ignominious
      consequences of his crime in this,—he would dedicate the remainder of his days to
      penitence,—he would toil from the dawn of morning till sunset to obtain the bread of
      honesty,—he would use every effort, exert every nerve to atone for the outrage he had
      committed upon the laws of society!  
  But—no! it was too late. The blood-hounds of the law were already upon his track.  
  An hour passed away; and during that interval the murderer sought to compose himself by
      means of his pipe and the rum-bottle: but he could not banish the horrible ideas which haunted
      him.  
  Suddenly a strange noise fell upon his ear.  
  The blood appeared to run cold to his very heart in a refluent tide; for the steps of many
      feet, and the sounds of many voices, echoed through the old house.  
  The truth instantly flashed to his mind: the police had entered the premises.  
  With hair standing on end, eye-balls glaring, and forehead bathed in perspiration, the
      murderer sate motionless upon the cold stone bench—afraid even to breathe. Every moment he
      expected to hear the trap-door at the head of the spiral staircase move: but several minutes
      elapsed, and his fears in this respect were not accomplished.  
  At length he heard a sound as of a body falling heavily; and then a voice almost close to
      him fell upon his ear.  
  The reader will remember that the vault in which he was concealed, joined the cellar from
      whence Walter Sydney had escaped. The officers had entered that cellar by means of the
      trap-door in the floor of the room immediately above it. Bolter could overhear their entire
      conversation.  
  "Well, this is a strange crib, this is," said one. "Show the bull's-eye up in that farther
      corner: there may be a door in one of them dark nooks."  
  "It will jist end as I said it would," exclaimed another: "the feller wouldn't be sich a
      fool as to come to a place that's knowed to the Force as one of bad repute."  
  "I didn't think, myself, there was much good in coming to search this old crib: but the
      inspector said   yes  , and so we couldn't say   no  ."  
  "Let's be off: the cold of this infernal den strikes to my very bones. But I say—that there
      shelving board that we first lighted on in getting down, isn't made to help people to come
      here alive."  
  "Turn the bull's-eye more on it."  
  "Now can you see?"  
  "Yes—plain enough. It leads to a hole that looks on the ditch. But the plank is quite old
      and rotten; so I dare say it was put there for some purpose or another a long time ago. Pr'aps
      the thieves used to convey their swag through that there hole into a boat in the ditch,
      and——"  
  "No, no," interrupted the other policeman: "it wasn't swag that they tumbled down the plank
      into the Fleet: it was stiff 'uns."  
  "Very likely. But there can't be any of that kind of work ever going on now: so let's be
      off."  
  The murderer in the adjoining vault could hear the policemen climb up the plank towards the
      trap-door; and in a few minutes profound silence again reigned throughout the old house.  
  This time he had escaped detection; and yet the search was keen and penetrating.  
  The apparent safety of his retreat restored him to something like good spirits; and he began
      to calculate the chances which he imagined to exist for and against the probability of his
      escape from the hands of justice.  
  "There is but five men in the world as knows of this hiding-place," he said to himself; "and
      them is myself, Dick Flairer, Crankey Jem, the Resurrection Man, and Tom the Cracksman. As for
      me, I'm here—that's one what won't blab. Dick Flairer isn't likely to sell a pal: Tom the
      Cracksman I'd rely on even if he was on the rack. Crankey Jem is staunch to the backbone;
      besides, he's in the Jug: so is the Resurrection Man. They can't do much harm there. I think
      I'm tolerably safe; and as for frightening myself about ghosts and goblins——"  
  He was suddenly interrupted by the rattling of the bones beneath the stone-bench. He
      started; and a profuse perspiration instantly broke out upon his forehead.  
  A huge rat had disturbed those relics of mortality; but this little incident tended to hurl
      the murderer back again into all that appalling gloominess of thought from which he had for a
      moment seemed to be escaping.  
   the hours. At length darkness again came down upon the earth: the light of the
      little grating disappeared; and the vault was once more enveloped in the deepest
      obscurity.  
  The murderer ate a mouthful, and then endeavoured to compose himself to sleep, for he was
      worn out mentally and bodily.  
  The clock of Saint Sepulchre's proclaimed the hour of seven, as he awoke from a short and
      feverish slumber.  
  He thought he heard a voice calling him in in his dreams; and when he started up he listened
      with affright.  
  "Bill—are you asleep?"  
  It was not, then, a dream: a human voice addressed him in reality.  
  "Bill—why don't you answer?" said the voice. "It's only me!"  
  Bolter suddenly felt relieved of an immense load; it was his friend Dick who was calling him
      from the little trap-door. He instantly hurried up the staircase, and was surprised to find
      that there was no light in the room.  
  "My dear feller," said Dick, in a hurried tone, "I didn't mean to come back so soon again,
      but me and Tom is a-going to do a little business together down Southampton way—someot that he
      has been told of; and as we may be away a few days, I thought I'd better come this evenin'
      with a fresh supply. Here's plenty of grub, and rum, and bakker."  
  "Well, this is a treat—to hear a friendly voice again so soon," said Bill;—"but why the
      devil don't you light the candle?"  
  "I'm a-going to do it now," returned Dick; and he struck a lucifer-match as he spoke. "I
      thought I wouldn't show a light here sooner than was necessary; and we must not keep it
      burning too long; cos there may be chinks in them shutters, and I des say the blue-bottles is
      on the scent."  
  "They come and searched the whole place this mornin'," said Bill: "but they didn't smell me
      though."  
  "Then you're all safe now, my boy," cried Dick. "Here, look alive—take this basket, and
      pitch it down the stairs: it's well tied up, and chock full of cold meat and bread. Put them
      two bottles into your pocket: there—that's right. Now—do you want anythink else?"  
  "Yes—a knife. I was forced to gnaw my food like a dog for want of one."  
  "Here you are," said Dick; and, taking a knife from the secret cupboard between the windows,
      he handed it to his friend. "Now are you all right?"  
  "Quite—that is, as right as a feller in my sitivation can be. You won't forget to
      come——"  
  Bolter was standing within two or three steps from the top of the staircase; and the greater
      part of his body was consequently above the trap-door.  
  He stopped suddenly short in the midst of his injunction to his companion, and staggered in
      such a way that he nearly lost his footing.  
  His eye had caught sight of a human countenance peering from behind the half-open door of
      the room.  
  "Damnation!" exclaimed the murderer: "I'm sold at last!"—and, rushing up the steps, he fell
      upon Dick Flairer with the fury of a tiger.  
  At the same moment four or five officers darted into the room:—but they were too late to
      prevent another dreadful deed of blood.  
  Bolter had plunged the knife which he held in his hand, into the heart of Dick Flairer, the
      burglar.  
  The blow was given with fatal effect: the unfortunate wretch uttered a horrible cry, and
      fell at the feet of his assassin, stone dead.  
  "Villain! what have you done?" ejaculated the serjeant who headed the little detachment of
      police.  
  "I've drawn the claret of the rascal that nosed upon me," returned Bolter doggedly.  
  "You were never more mistaken in your life," said the serjeant.  
  "How—what do you mean? Wasn't it that scoundrel Dick that chirped against me?"  
  "No—ten thousand times   No  !" cried the officer: "it was a prisoner in Newgate who
      split upon this hiding place. Somehow or another he heard of the reward offered to take you;
      and he told the governor the whole secret of the vault. Without knowing whether we should find
      you here or not, we came to search it."  
  "Then it was the Resurrection Man who betrayed me after all!" exclaimed Bolter; and, dashing
      the palms of his two hands violently against his temples, he added, in a tone of intense
      agony, "I have murdered my best friend—monster, miscreant that I am!"  
  The policeman speedily fixed a pair of manacles about his wrists; and in the course of a
      quarter of an hour he was safely secured in one of the cells at the station-house in
      Smithfield.  
  On the following day he was committed to Newgate.  
  
  CHAPTER XXIX. THE BLACK CHAMBER.  
  ONCE more does the scene change.  
  The reader who follows us through the mazes of our narrative, has yet to be introduced to
      many strange places—many hideous haunts of crime, abodes of poverty, dens of horror, and
      lurking-holes of perfidy—as well as many seats of wealthy voluptuousness and aristocratic
      dissipation.  
  It will be our task to guide those who choose to accompany us, to scenes and places whose
      very existence may appear to belong to the regions of romance rather than to a city in the
      midst of civilisation, and whose characteristic features are as yet unknown to even those that
      are the best acquainted with the realities of life.  
  About a fortnight had elapsed since the events related in the preceding chapter.  
  In a small, high, well-lighted room five individuals were seated at a large round oaken
      table. One of these persons, who appeared to be the superior, was an elderly man with a high
      forehead, and thin white hair falling over the collar of his black coat. He was short and
      rather corpulent: his countenance denoted frankness and good-nature; but his eyes, which were
      small, grey, and sparkling, had a lurking expression of cunning, only perceptible to the acute
      observer. The other three individuals were young and gentlemanly-looking men, neatly dressed,
      and very deferential in their manners towards their superior.  
   of a seal upon a letter. The seals—or rather blank bread-stamps—now upon the
      tray, were of this kind, only more carefully manufactured, and well consolidated with thick
      gum-water.  
  Close by this tray, in a large wooden bowl were wafers of all sizes and colours; and in a
      box also standing on the table, were numbers of wafer-stamps of every dimension used. A second
      box contained thin blades of steel, set fast in delicate ivory handles, and sharp as razors. A
      third box was filled with sticks of sealing-wax of all colours, and of foreign as well as
      British manufacture. A small glass retort fixed over a spirit-lamp, was placed near one of the
      young men. A tin-box containing a little cushion covered with printer's red ink in one
      compartment, and several stamps such as the reader may have seen used in post-offices, in
      another division, lay open near the other articles mentioned. Lastly, an immense pile of
      letters—some sealed, and others wafered—stood upon that end of the table at which the elderly
      gentleman was seated.  
  The occupations of these five individuals may be thus described in a few words.  
  The old gentleman took up the letters one by one, and bent them open, as it were, in such a
      way, that he could read a portion of their contents when they were not folded in such a manner
      as effectually to conceal all the writing. He also examined the addresses, and consulted a
      long paper of official character which lay upon the table at his right hand. Some of the
      letters he threw, after as careful a scrutiny as he could devote to them without actually
      breaking the seals or wafers, into a large wicker basket at his feet. From time to time,
      however, he passed a letter to the young man who sate nearest to him.  
  If the letters were closed with wax, an impression of the seal was immediately taken by
      means of one of the bread stamps. The young man then took the letter and held it near the
      large fire which burnt in the grate until the sealing-wax became so softened by the heat that
      the letter could be easily opened without tearing the paper. The third clerk read it aloud,
      while the fourth took notes of its contents. It was then returned to the first young man, who
      re-sealed it by means of the impression taken on the bread stamp, and with wax which precisely
      matched that originally used in closing the letter. When this ceremony was performed, the
      letter was consigned to the same basket which contained those that had passed unopened through
      the hands of the Examiner.  
  If the letter were fastened with a wafer, the second clerk made the water in the little
      glass retort boil by means of the spirit-lamp; and when the vapour gushed forth from the tube,
      the young man held the letter to its mouth in such a way that the steam played full upon the
      identical spot where the wafer was placed. The wafer thus became moistened in a slight degree;
      and it was only then necessary to pass one of the thin steel blades skilfully beneath the
      wafer, in order to open the letter. The third young man then read this epistle, and the fourth
      took notes, as in the former instance. The contents being thus ascertained, the letter was
      easily fastened again with a very thin wafer of the same colour and size as the original; and
      if the job were at all clumsily done, the tin-box before noticed furnished the means of
      imprinting a red stamp upon the back of the letter, in such a way that a portion of the circle
      fell precisely over the spot beneath which the wafer was placed.  
  These processes were accomplished in total silence, save when the contents of the letters
      were read; and then, so accustomed were those five individuals to hear the revelations of the
      most strange secrets and singular communications, that they seldom appeared surprised or
      amused—shocked or horrified, at anything which those letters made known to them. Their task
      seemed purely of a mechanical kind: indeed, automatons could not have shewn less passion or
      excitement.  
  Oh! vile—despicable occupation,—performed, too, by men who went forth, with heads erect and
      confident demeanour, from their atrocious employment—after having violated those secrets which
      are deemed most sacred, and broken the seals which merchants, lovers, parents, relations, and
      friends, had placed upon their thoughts!  
  Base and diabolical outrage—perpetrated by the commands of the Ministers of the
      Sovereign!  
  Reader, this small, high, well-lighted room, in which such infamous scenes took place with
      doors well secured by bolts and bars, was the   Black Chamber of the General Post-Office,
       Saint Martin's-le-Grand  .  
  And now, reader, do you ask whether all this be true;—whether, in the very heart of the
      metropolis of the civilized world, such a system and such a den of infamy can exist;—whether,
      in a word, the means of transferring thought at a cheap and rapid rate, be really made
      available to the purposes of government and the ends of party policy? If you ask these
      questions, to each and all we confidently and boldly answer "  Yes  ."  
  The first letter which the Examiner caused to be opened on the occasion when we introduce
      our readers to the Black Chamber, was from the State of Castelcicala, in Italy, to the
      representative of that Grand-Duchy at the English court. Its contents, when translated, ran
      thus:—  
  
  City of Montoni, Castelcicala.  
  "I am desired by my lord the Marquis of Gerrano, his Highness's Secretary of State for
       Foreign Affairs, to inform your Excellency that, in consequence of a general amnesty just
       proclaimed by His Serene Highness, and which includes all political prisoners and emigrants,
       passports to return to the Grand Duchy of Castelcicala, may be accorded to his Highness
       Alberto Prince of Castelcicala, nephew of his Serene Highness the Reigning Grand Duke, as
       well as to all other natives of Castelcicala now resident in England, but who may be desirous
       of returning to their own country,  
  "I have the honour to renew to your Excellency assurances of my most perfect
       consideration.  
  "  Baron Ruperto  , "Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, &amp;c. &amp;c.  
  
  The second letter perused upon this occasion, by the inmates of the Black Chamber, was from
      a famous London Banker to his father at Manchester:—  
  
  "You will be astounded, my dear father, when your eye meets the statement I am now at
       length compelled to make to you. The world believes my establishment to be as firmly based as
       the rocks themselves: my credit is unlimited, and thousands have confided their funds to my
       care. Alas, my dear father, I am totally insolvent: the least drain upon the bank would
       plunge me into irredeemable ruin and dishonour. I have, however, an opportunity of retrieving
       myself, and building up my fortunes: a certain government operation is proposed to me; and if
       I can undertake it, my profits will be immense. Fifty thousand pounds are absolutely
       necessary for my purposes within six days from the present time. Consider whether you will
       save your son by making him this advance; or allow him to sink into infamy, disgrace and
       ruin, by withholding it. Whichever way you may determine breathe not a word to a soul. The
       authorities in the Treasury have made all possible inquiries concerning me, and believe me to
       be not only solvent, but immensely rich. I expect your answer by return of post.  
  "Your affectionate but almost heart-broken son,  
   "  James Tomlinson  ."  
  
    
  The writer of this letter flattered himself that the government had already made "all
      possible enquiries:"—he little dreamt that his own epistle was to furnish the Treasury,
      through the medium of the Post Office, with the very information which he had so fondly deemed
      unknown to all save himself.  
  When the third letter was opened, the clerk whose duty it was to read it, looked at the
      signature, and, addressing himself to the Examiner, said, "From whom, sir, did you anticipate
      that this letter came?"  
  "From Lord Tremordyn. Is it not directed to Lady Tremordyn?" exclaimed the Examiner.  
  "It is, sir," answered the clerk. "But it is written by that lady's daughter Cecilia."  
  "I am very sorry for that. The Home Office," said the Examiner, "is particularly anxious to
      ascertain the intention of Lord Tremordyn in certain party matters; and it is known," he
      added, referring to the official paper beside him, "that his lordship communicates all his
      political sentiments to her ladyship, who is now at Bath."  
  "Then, sir, this letter need not be read?" cried the clerk interrogatively.  
  "Not read, young man!" ejaculated the Examiner, impatiently. "How often am I to tell you
      that every letter which is once opened, is to be carefully perused? Have we not been able to
      afford the government and the police some very valuable information at different times, by
      noting the contents of letters which we have opened by mistake?"  
  "Certainly," added the first clerk. "There is that deeply-planned and well-laid scheme of
      Stephens, and his young lady disguised as a man, who lives at Upper Clapton, which we
      discovered by the mere accident of opening a wrong letter."  
  "I beg your pardon, sir," said the clerk whose duty it was to read the epistles, and whose
      apology to the Examiner was delivered in a most deferential manner. "I will now proceed with
      the letter of the Honourable Miss Cecilia Huntingfield to her mother Lady Tremordyn."  
  The young clerk then read as follows:—  
  
  "Oh! my dear mother, how shall I find words to convey to you the fearful tale of my
       disgrace and infamy of which I am the unhappy and guilty heroine? A thousand times before you
       left London, I was on the point of throwing myself at your feet and confessing all! But, no—I
       could not—I dared not. And now, my dear parent, I can conceal my shame no longer! Oh! how
       shall I make you comprehend me, without actually entrusting this paper with the fearful
       secret! My God! I am almost distracted. Surely you can understand my meaning? If not, learn
       the doleful tidings at once, my dearest and most affectionate parent:   I am about to
        become a mother!   Oh! do not spurn me from you—do not curse your child! It has cost me
       pangs of anguish ineffable, and of mental agony an idea of which I could not convey to you,
       to sit down and rend your heart with this avowal. But, O heavens! what am I to do?
       Concealment is no longer possible:   in three months more I shall be a mother!   That
       villain Harborough—the friend of our family, Sir Rupert Harborough,—the man in whom my dear
       father put every confidence,—that wretch has caused my shame! And yet there are times, my
       dear mother, when I feel that I love him;—for he is the father of the child which must soon
       publish my disgrace! And now, my fond—confiding—tender parent, you know all. Oh! come to my
       rescue: adopt some means to conceal my shame;—shield me from my father's wrath! I can write
       no more at present: but my mind feels relieved now I have thus opened my heart to my
       mother.  
  "Your afflicted and almost despairing daughter,  
   "  Cecilia Huntingfield  ."  
  
  Thus was a secret involving the honour of a noble family,—a secret compromising the most
      sacred interests—revealed to five men at one moment, by means of the atrocious system pursued
      in the Black Chamber of the General Post Office.  
  The fourth letter was from Mr. Robert Stephens of London to his brother Mr. Frederick
      Stephens of Liverpool:—  
  
  "  My dear Brother  ,  
  "I write you a few hasty instructions, to which I solicit your earnest attention. You are
       well aware that the 26th instant is my grand day—the day to which I have been so long and so
       anxiously looking forward. All my schemes are so well organised that detection is impossible.
       That fellow Montague gave me a little trouble a fortnight or so ago, by suddenly and most
       unexpectedly declaring that he would not act as the witness of identity; and I was actually
       compelled to give him five hundred pounds to silence him. What could have been his motive for
       shirking out of the affair, I cannot tell. Be that as it may, I have supplied his place with
       another and better man—a lawyer of the name of Mac Chizzle. But now for my instructions. The
       grand blow will be struck soon after mid-day on the 26th instant. Immediately it is done, I
       shall give Walter (I always speak of   HER   as a man) the ten thousand pounds I have
       promised him; and then off to Liverpool in a post-chaise and four. Now, if there be a packet
       for America on the 27th, secure me a berth; if not, ascertain if there be a vessel sailing
       for Havre or Bordeaux on that day, and then secure me a berth in such ship:—but should there
       be none in this instance also, then obtain a list of all the ships which, according to
       present arrangements, are to leave Liverpool on the 27th, with their places of destination
       and all other particulars.  
  "Burn this letter the moment you have read it: we then know that it cannot possibly have
       told tales.  
  "Your affectionate brother,  
   "  Robert Stephens  ."  
  
  Poor deluded man! he believed that letters confided to the General Post Office
      administration could "tell no tales" during their progress from the sender to the
      receiver:—how miserably was he mistaken!  
  And here we may observe that if the system of opening letters at the General Post Office
      were merely adopted for the purpose of discovering criminals and preventing crime, we should
      still deprecate the proceeding, although our objections would lose much of their point in
      consideration of the motive: but when we find—and know it to be a fact—that the secrets of
      correspondence are flagrantly violated for political and other purposes, we raise our voice to
      denounce so atrocious a system, and to excite the indignation of the country against the men
      who can countenance or avail themselves of it!  
  Numerous other letters were read upon the occasion referred to in this chapter; and their
      contents carefully noted down. The whole ceremony was conducted with so much regularity and
      method, that it proceeded with amazing despatch; and the re-fastening of the letters was
      managed with such skill that in few, if any instances, were the slightest traces left to
      excite suspicion of the process to which those epistles had been subjected.  
  It was horrible to see that old man forgetting the respectability of his years, and those
      four young ones laying aside the fine feelings which ought to have animated their bosoms,—it
      was horrible to see them earnestly, systematically, and skilfully devoting themselves to an
      avocation the most disgraceful, soul-debasing, and morally execrable!  
   epistle to her mother were entered in a private book in case they should be
      required at a future day;—and an exact copy of Robert Stephens' letter to his brother was
      forwarded to the Solicitor of the Bank of England.  
  
  CHAPTER XXX. THE 26TH OF NOVEMBER.  
  AS soon as the first gleam of morning penetrated through the curtains of the boudoir in the
      Villa near Upper Clapton, Walter leapt from her couch.  
  Conflicting feelings of joy and sorrow filled her bosom. The day—the happy day had at length
      arrived, when, according to the promise of the man on whom she looked as her benefactor, that
      grand event was to be accomplished, which would release her from the detestable disguise which
      she had now maintained for a period of nearly five years. The era had come when she was again
      to appear in the garb that suited alike her charms and her inclinations. This circumstance
      inspired her with the most heartfelt happiness.  
  But, on the other hand, she loved—tenderly loved one who had meditated against her an
      outrage of a most infamous description. Instead of hailing her approaching return to her
      female attire as the signal for the consummation of the fond hopes in which she had a few
      weeks before indulged,—hopes which pictured to her imagination delicious scenes of matrimonial
      bliss in the society of George Montague,—she was compelled to separate that dream of felicity
      from the fact of her emancipation from a thraldom repulsive to her delicacy and her
      tastes.  
  It was, therefore, with mingled feelings of happiness and melancholy, that she commenced her
      usual toilette—that masculine toilette which she was that day to wear for the last time.  
  "You ought to be in good spirits this morning, my dearest mistress," said Louisa, as she
      entered the room: "the period so anxiously looked forward to by you has at length
      arrived."  
  "And to-morrow—to-morrow," exclaimed Walter, her hazel eyes lighting up with a brilliant
      expression of joy, "you, my excellent Louisa, will assist me to adorn myself with that garb
      which I have neglected so of late!"  
  "I shall be happy both for your sake and mine," returned Louisa, who was indeed deeply
      attached to her mistress; "and when I see you recovering all your usual spirits, in a foreign
      land——"  
  "In Switzerland," hastily interrupted Walter; "in Switzerland—whither you will accompany me,
      my good and faithful Louisa; and to which delightful country we will proceed without delay!
      There indeed I shall be happy—and, I hope, contented!"  
  "Mr. Stephens is to be here at ten, is he not?" said Louisa, after a short pause.  
  "At ten precisely; and we then repair forthwith to the West End of the town, where certain
      preliminaries are requisite previously to receiving an immense sum of money which will be paid
      over to us at the Bank of England. This much Mr. Stephens told me yesterday. He had never
      communicated so much before."  
  "And this very afternoon it is your determination to leave London?" said Louisa.  
  "I am now resolved upon that step," replied the lady. "You alone shall accompany me: Mr.
      Stephens has promised to provide for the groom and the old cook. Therefore, while I am absent
      this morning about the momentous business—the real nature of which, by-the-bye, has yet to be
      explained to me—you will make all the preparations that may be necessary for our journey."  
  This conversation took place while Louisa hastily lighted the fire in the boudoir. In a few
      minutes the grate sent up a cheering and grateful heat; and the flames roared up the chimney.
      The lady, with an elegant dressing-gown folded loosely around her, and her delicate white feet
      thrust into red morocco slippers, threw herself into her luxurious easy-chair while Louisa
      hastened to serve up breakfast upon a little rose-wood table, covered with a napkin as white
      as snow. But the meal passed away almost untouched: the lady's heart was too full of hope and
      tender melancholy to allow her to experience the least appetite.  
  The mysterious toilette was completed: and Walter descended to the parlour, attired in
      masculine garments for the last time!  
  At ten o'clock precisely Mr. Stephens arrived. He was dressed with peculiar neatness and
      care; but his countenance was very pale, and his eyes vibrated in a restless manner in their
      sockets. He, however, assumed a bold composure; and thus the profound anxiety to which he was
      at that moment a prey, was unnoticed by Walter Sydney.  
  They seated themselves upon the sofa, and looked at each other for an instant without
      speaking. Those glances on either side expressed, in the ardent language of the eye, the
      words—"This is the day!"  
  "Walter," said Mr. Stephens, at length breaking the silence which had prevailed, "your
      conduct to-day must crown my designs with glorious success, or involve me in irretrievable
      ruin."  
  "You may rely with confidence upon my discretion and prudence," answered Walter. "Command me
      in all respects—consistently with honour."  
  "Honour!" exclaimed Stephens impatiently: "why do you for ever mention that unmeaning word?
         Honour   is a conventional term, and is often used in a manner inconsistently with
      common sense and sound judgment.   Honour   is all very well when it is brought in
      contact with   honour   only; but when it has to oppose fraud and deceit, it must succumb
      if it trust solely to its own force. The most honest lawyer sets chichanery and quibble to
      work, to counteract the chichanery and quibble of his pettifogging opponent: the politician
      calls the machinery of intrigue into play, in order to fight his foeman with that foeman's own
      weapons:—if the French employ the aid of riflemen concealed in the thicket while the fair
      fight takes place upon the plain, the English must do the same."  
  "I certainly comprehend the necessity of frequently fighting a man with his own weapons,"
      said Walter; "but I do not see to what point in our affairs your reasoning tends."  
    
  "I think that I should be inclined to make the statement, to serve the cause of justice and
      to render a friend a signal service," answered Sydney, after a moment's hesitation.  
  "I could not have expected a different reply," exclaimed Stephens, a gleam of joy animating
      his pale countenance: "and you would do so with less remorse when you found that you were
      transferring property from one individual who could well spare what he was never justly
      entitled to, to a person who would starve without the restoration of his legitimate
      rights."  
  "Oh! certainly," said Walter; and this time the reply was given without an instant's
      meditation.  
  "Then," continued Stephens, more and more satisfied with the influence of his sophistry,
      "you would in such a case eschew those maudlin and mawkish ideas of   honour  , which
      arbitrarily exact that a falsehood must never be told for a good purpose, and that
      illegitimate means must never—never be adopted to work out virtuous and profitable ends?"  
  "My conduct in assuming this disguise," returned Sydney, with a smile and a blush, "has
      proved to you, I should imagine, that I should not hesitate to make use of a deceit
      comparatively innocent, with a view to oppose fraud and ensure permanent benefit to my friend
      and myself."  
  "Oh! Walter, you should have been a man in person as well as in mind!" cried Stephens,
      enthusiastically. "Now I have no fears of the result of my plans; and before sun-set you shall
      be worth ten thousand pounds!"  
  "Ten thousand pounds!" repeated Walter, mechanically. "How much can be done with such a sum
      as that!"  
  "You expressed a wish to leave this country, and visit the south of Europe," said Stephens:
      "you will have ample means to gratify all your tastes, and administer to all your
      inclinations. Only conceive a beautiful little cottage on the shore of the lake of Brienz—that
      pearl of the Oberland; the fair boat-women—the daughters of Switzerland—passing in their
      little shallops beneath your windows, and singing their national songs, full of charming
      tenderness, while the soft music mingles with the murmuring waves and the sounds of the
      oars!"  
  "Oh! what an enchanting picture!" cried Walter. "And have you ever seen such as this?"  
  "I have; and I feel convinced that the existence I recommend is the one which will best suit
      you. To-day," continued Stephens, watching his companion's countenance with a little anxiety,
      "shall you recover your rights;—to-day shall you oppose the innocent deceit to the enormous
      fraud;—to-day shall you do for   yourself   what you ere now stated you would do for a
         friend  !"  
  "If you have drawn my own case in putting those queries to me,—if immense advantages will be
      derived from my behaviour in this affair,—if I am merely wresting from the hands of base
      cupidity that which is justly mine own,—and if the enemy whom we oppose can well afford to
      restore to me the means of subsistence, and thus render me independent for the remainder of my
      days,—oh! how can I hesitate for a moment? how can I refuse to entrust myself wholely and
      solely—blindly and confidently—in your hands,—you who have done so much for me, and who have
      taught me to respect, honour, and obey you?"  
  The lady uttered these words with a species of electric enthusiasm, while her eyes
      brightened, and her cheeks were suffused with the purple glow of animation. The specious
      arguments and the glowing description of Swiss life, brought forward by Stephens with
      admirable dexterity, awakened all the ardour of an impassioned soul; and the bosom of that
      beauteous creature palpitated with hope, with joy, and with excitement, as she gazed upon the
      future through the mirror presented by Stephens to her view.  
  She was now exactly in a frame of mind suited to his purpose. Without allowing her ardour
      time to abate, and while she was animated by the delicious aspirations which he had conjured
      up, as it were by an enchanter's spell, in her breast, he took her by he hand, and led her up
      to the mantelpiece; then, pointing to the portrait of her brother, he said in a low, hurried,
      and yet solemn tone,—"The fortune which must be wrested from the grasp of cupidity this day,
      would have belonged to your brother; and no power on earth could have deprived him of it; for,
      had he lived, he would yesterday have attained his twenty-first year! His death is unknown to
      him who holds this money: but, by a miserable legal technicality, you—  you  , his
      sister, and   in justice   his heiress—  you   would be deprived of that fortune by
      the man who now grasps it, and who would chuckle at any plan which made it his own. Now do you
      comprehend me? You have but to say that your name is   Walter  , instead of
         Eliza  ,—and you will recover your just rights, defeat the wretched chicanery of the
      law, and enter into possession of those resources which belong to you in the eyes of God, but
      which, if you shrink, will be for ever alienated from you and yours!"  
  "In one word," said the lady, "I am to personate my brother?"  
  "Precisely! Do you hesitate?" demanded Stephens: "will you allow the property of your family
      to pass into the hands of a stranger, who possesses not the remotest right to its enjoyment?
      or will you by one bold effort—an effort that cannot fail—direct that fortune into its just,
      its proper, and its legitimate channel?"  
  "The temptation is great," said the lady, earnestly contemplating the portrait of her
      brother; "but the danger—the danger?" she added hastily: "what would be the result if we were
      detected?"  
  "Nothing—nothing, save the total loss of the entire fortune," answered Stephens: "and,
      therefore, you perceive, that want of nerve—hesitation—awkwardness—blushes—confusion on your
      part, would ruin all. Be firm—be collected—be calm and resolute—and our plans   must   be
      crowned with unequivocal success!"  
  "Oh! if I proceed farther, I will pass through the ordeal with ease and safety," exclaimed
      the lady: "I can nerve my mind to encounter any danger, when it is well defined, and I know
      its extent;—it is only when it is vague, uncertain, and indistinct, that I shrink from meeting
      it. Yes," she continued, after a few moments' reflection, "I will follow your counsel in all
      respects: you   do   know—you   must   know how much we risk, and how far we
      compromise ourselves;—and when I see you ready to urge on this matter to the end, how can I
      fear to accompany you? Yes," she added, after another pause, much longer than the preceding
      one,—"I will be Walter Sydney throughout this day at least!"  
  "My dear friend," ejaculated Stephens, in a transport of joy, "you act in a manner worthy of
      your noble-hearted brother, I see—he smiles upon you even in his picture-frame."  
   which is thine, dear brother," said the lady, addressing herself to the portrait
      as if it could hear the words which she pronounced with a melancholy solemnity: then, turning
      towards Stephens, she exclaimed, "But you must acquaint me with the ceremonies we have to
      fulfil, and the duties which I shall have to perform, in order to accomplish the desired
      aim."  
  "I need not instruct you now," returned Stephens: "the forms are nothing, and explain
      themselves, as it were;—a few papers to sign at a certain person's house in Grosvenor
      Square—then a ride to the Bank—and all is over. But we must now take our departure: the
      hackney-coach that brought us hither is waiting to convey us to the West End."  
  Stephens and Sydney issued from the house together. The former gave certain directions to
      the coachman; and they then commenced their memorable journey.  
  Mr. Stephens did not allow his companion a single moment for calm and dispassionate
      reflection. He continued to expatiate upon the happiness which was within her reach amidst the
      rural scenery of Switzerland: he conjured up before her mental vision the most ravishing and
      delightful pictures of domestic tranquillity, so congenial to her tastes:—he fed her
      imagination with all those fairy visions which were calculated to attract and dazzle a mind
      tinged with a romantic shade;—and then he skilfully introduced those specious arguments which
      blinded her as to the real nature of the deceit in which she was so prominent an agent. He
      thus sustained an artificial state of excitement, bordering upon enthusiasm, in the bosom of
      that confiding and generous-hearted woman; and not for one moment during that long ride, did
      she repent of the step she had taken. In fact, such an influence did the reasoning of Stephens
      exercise upon her mind, that she ceased to think of the possibility of either incurring danger
      or doing wrong;—she knew not how serious might be the consequences of detection;—she believed
      that she was combating the chicanery of the law with a similar weapon, the use of which was
      justified and rendered legitimate by the peculiar circumstances of the case.  
  The hackney-coach proceeded by way of the New Road, and stopped to take up Mr. Mac Chizzle
      at his residence near Saint Pancras New Church. The vehicle then proceeded to Grosvenor
      Square, where it stopped opposite one of those princely dwellings whose dingy exteriors afford
      to the eye of the foreigner accustomed to the gorgeous edifices of continental cities, but
      little promise of the wealth, grandeur, and magnificence which exist within.  
  The door was opened by a footman in splendid livery.  
  This domestic immediately recognised Mr. Stephens, and said, "His lordship expects you,
      sir."  
  The three visitors alighted from the coach: and as Stephens walked with the disguised lady
      into the hall of the mansion, he said in a hurried whisper, "Courage, my dear Walter: you are
      now about to appear in the presence of the Earl of Warrington!"  
  The servant led the way up a wide staircase, and conducted the visitors into a library
      fitted up in the most luxurious and costly manner. Cases filled with magnificently bound
      volumes, statues of exquisite sculpture, and pictures of eminent artists, denoted the taste of
      the aristocratic possessor of that lordly mansion.  
  Two individuals were seated at a table covered with papers and legal documents. One was a
      fine, tall, middle-aged man, with a noble and handsome countenance, polished manners, and most
      kind and affable address:—the other was an old gentleman with a bald head, sharp features, and
      constant smile upon his lips when he addressed the personage just described.  
  The first was the Earl of Warrington; the other was his solicitor, Mr. Pakenham.  
  The Earl rose and greeted Mr. Stephens cordially; then, turning towards Walter, he shook her
      kindly by the hand, and said, "I need not ask if you are the young gentleman to whom I am to
      be introduced as Mr. Walter Sydney."  
  "This is my ward, your lordship," said Mr. Stephens, smiling. "I think it is scarcely
      necessary to call your lordship's attention to the striking resemblance which he bears to his
      lamented father."  
  "Yes—it would be impossible to mistake him," said his lordship hastily, while a cloud passed
      over his brow. "But sit down—pray sit down; and we will proceed to business. I presume that
      gentleman is your professional adviser?"  
  "Mr. Mac Chizzle," observed Stephens, introducing the lawyer. "Mr. Pakenham, I have had the
      pleasure of seeing you before," he added, addressing the nobleman's attorney with a placid
      smile.  
  Mr. Pakenham acknowledged the salutation with a bow; and his eye wandered for a moment, with
      some surprise, towards Mac Chizzle,—as much as to say, "I am astonished to see a person like
      you employed in so important an affair."  
  When every one was seated, the Earl of Warrington referred to some papers placed before him,
      and said, "The object of this meeting is known to every one present. The duty that devolves
      upon me is to transfer to Walter Sydney, the only son and heir of the late Stanford Sydney,
      upon being satisfied with respect to the identity of the claimant, the sum of forty-one
      thousand pounds now invested in certain stocks in the Bank of England."  
  "It is needless, I presume," said Mr. Pakenham, "to enter into the particulars of this
      inheritance. We on our side admit our liability to pay the amount specified by his lordship,
      to the proper claimant."  
  "Quite satisfactory," observed Mac Chizzle, to whom these observations were addressed.  
  "The proofs of identity are, then, all that your lordship now requires?" said Mr.
      Stephens.  
  "And I only require them as a mere matter of necessary form and ceremony, Mr. Stephens,"
      returned the Earl of Warrington. "I am well aware of your acquaintance with the late Mrs.
      Sydney, and of the fact that the deceased lady left her children to your care."  
  "My lord, here are the various certificates," said Stephens, placing a small packet of
      papers before the Earl. "In the first instance you have the marriage certificate of Stanford
      Sydney and Letitia Hardinge, the natural daughter of the late Earl of Warrington, your
      lordship's uncle."  
  "Well—well," exclaimed the nobleman, somewhat impatiently, as if he were anxious to get rid
      as soon as possible of a business by no means pleasant to him. "That certificate is beyond all
      dispute."  
  "Here," continued Stephens, "is the certificate of the birth of Eliza Sydney, born October
      12th, 1810; and here is the certificate of her death, which took place on the 14th of
      February, 1831."  
   Pakenham; "as in no case, under the provisions of these deeds," he added,
      pointing to a pile of documents before him, "could that young lady have instituted even a
      shadow of a claim to this money."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "We had better possess one deed too many, than one too few," said Mr. Stephens, with another
      bland smile.  
  "Oh! certainly," exclaimed the Earl. "And this precaution shows the exact condition of the
      late Mr. Stanford Sydney's family. The daughter is no more: the son lives, and is
      present."  
  "Here, then, my lord," continued Stephens, "is the certificate of the birth of Walter
      Sydney, on the 25th day of November, 1814."  
  The nobleman examined this document with far more attention than he had devoted to either of
      the former. He then handed it to Mr. Pakenham, who also scrutinized it narrowly.  
  "It is quite correct, my Lord," said this gentleman. "We now require two witnesses as to
      identity."  
  "I presume his Lordship will receive me as one," observed Mr. Stephens, "considering my
      intimate acquaintance with all—"  
  "Oh certainly—certainly," interrupted the Earl hastily.  
    
  "I have known this young gentleman for the last six years," exclaimed Mac Chizzle, pointing
      towards Walter, "and I knew his mother also."  
  "Is your Lordship satisfied?" enquired Mr. Pakenham, after a short pause.  
  "Perfectly," answered the nobleman, without hesitation. "I am, however, in your hands."  
  "Oh! as for me," returned Mr. Pakenham, "I have no objection to offer. Your Lordship is
      acquainted with Mr. Stephens."  
  "Yes—yes," again interrupted the Earl; "I have known Mr. Stephens for some years—and I know
      him to be a man of honour."  
  "Then there is nothing more to be said," observed Pakenham.  
  "No—nothing," added Mac Chizzle; "but to complete the business."  
  "I will now read the release," said Mr. Pakenham.  
  The solicitor settled himself in a comfortable manner in his chair, and taking up a deed
      consisting of several folios, proceeded to make his hearers as much acquainted with its
      contents as the multifarious redundancies of law terms would allow.  
  The disguised lady had now time for reflection. She had been more or less prepared for the
      assertion of Mr. Stephens that Eliza Sydney was dead, and that Walter was living:—but the
      bare-faced falsehood uttered by Mac Chizzle (who, so far from having been acquainted with her
      for years, had never seen her until that morning), shocked and astounded her. She had also
      just learnt for the first time, that her late mother was the natural daughter of an Earl; and
      she perceived that she herself could claim a distant kinship with the nobleman in whose
      presence she then was. This circumstance inspired her with feelings in his favour, which were
      enhanced by the urbanity of his manners, and the readiness with which he admitted all the
      proofs submitted to him by Mr. Stephens. She had expected, from the arguments used by this
      gentleman to convince her that she should not hesitate to fight the law with its own weapons,
      &amp;c., that every obstacle would be thrown in the way of her claims by him on whom they were
      to be made;—and she was astonished when she compared all the specious representations of
      Stephens with the readiness, good-will, and alacrity manifested by the Earl in yielding up an
      enormous sum of money. Now also, for the first time, it struck her as remarkable that Stephens
      had promised her ten thousand pounds only—a fourth part of that amount to which, according to
      his own showing, she alone was justly entitled.  
  All these reflections passed rapidly through her mind while the lawyer was reading the deed
      of release, not one word of which was attended to by her. She suddenly felt as if her eyes
      were opened to a fearful conspiracy, in which she was playing a conspicuous part:—she
      trembled, as if she were standing upon the edge of a precipice;—and yet she knew not how to
      act. She was bewildered: but the uppermost idea in her mind was that she had gone too far to
      retreat.  
  This was the impression that ruled her thoughts at the precise moment when Mr. Pakenham
      brought the reading of the long wearisome document to a termination. The buzzing, droning
      noise which had filled her ears for upwards of twenty minutes, suddenly ceased;—and she heard
      a voice say in a kind tone. "Will you now please to sign this?"  
  She started—but immediately recovered her presence of mind, and, taking the pen from the
      lawyer's hand, applied the signature of   Walter Sydney   to the document. It was next
      witnessed by Pakenham, Stephens, and Mac Chizzle, and handed to the Earl.  
  The nobleman then took several papers—familiar to all those who have ever possessed Bank
      Stock—from an iron safe in one corner of the library, and handing them to the disguised lady,
      said, "Mr. Walter Sydney, I have much pleasure in putting you in possession of this fortune;
      and I can assure you that my best—my very best wishes for your health and prosperity,
      accompany the transfer."  
  Walter received the documents mechanically as it were, and murmured a few words of thanks
      and gratitude.  
  "Perhaps, Mr. Stephens," said the Earl, when the ceremony was thus completed, "you and your
      friends will do me the honour to accept of a slight refreshment in an adjoining room. You will
      excuse my absence; but I have a few matters of pressing importance to transact with my
      solicitor, and which cannot possibly be postponed. You must accept this as my apology; and
      believe in my regret that I cannot keep you company."  
  The Earl shook hands with both Stephens and Sydney, and bowed to Mac Chizzle. These three
      individuals then withdrew.  
  An elegant collation was prepared for them in another apartment; but Mac Chizzle was the
      only one who seemed inclined to pay his respects to it. Walter, however, gladly swallowed a
      glass of wine; for she felt exhausted with the excitement she had passed through. Stephens was
      too highly elated either to eat or drink, and too anxious to complete the business in the
      City, to allow Mac Chizzle to waste much time over the delicacies of which the collation
      consisted.  
  They were, therefore, all three soon on their way to the Bank of England.  
  "Well, I think we managed the job very correctly," said Mac Chizzle.  
  "Everything passed off precisely as I had anticipated," observed Mr. Stephens. "But you,
      Walter—you are serious."  
  "I do not look upon the transaction in the same light as I did a couple of hours since,"
      answered she coldly.  
  "Ah! my dear friend," cried Stephens, "you are deceived by the apparent urbanity of that
      nobleman, and the mildness of his solicitor. They assumed that appearance because there was no
      help for them;—they had no good to gain by throwing obstacles in our way."  
  "But the certificate of   my   death was a forgery," said Walter, bitterly.  
  "A necessary alteration of names—without which the accomplishment of our plan would have
      been impossible," answered Stephens. "But let me ease your mind in one respect, my dear
      Walter. That nobleman is a relation of yours—and yet until this day his name has never been
      mentioned to you. And why? Because he visits upon you the hatred which he entertained for your
      deceased mother! Did you not observe that he interrupted me when I spoke of her? did you not
      notice that he touched with extreme aversion upon the topics connected with your revered
      parents?"  
  "I did!—I did!" exclaimed Walter.  
   to the words of congratulation which issued from his lips."  
  "I believe you—I know that you are speaking the truth," cried Walter. "Pardon me, if for a
      moment I ceased to look upon you as a friend."  
  Stephens pressed the hand of the too-confiding being, over whom his dangerous eloquence and
      subtle reasoning possessed an influence so omnipotent for purposes of evil; and he then again
      launched out into glowing descriptions of the sources and means of happiness within her reach.
      This reasoning, aided by the hope that in a few hours she should be enabled to quit London for
      ever, restored the lady's disposition to that same easy and pliant state, to which Stephens
      had devoted nearly five years to model it.  
  At length the hackney-coach stopped at the Bank of England. Stephens hurried to the rotunda
      to obtain the assistance of a stock-broker, for the purpose of transferring and selling out
      the immense sum which now appeared within his reach, and to obtain which he had devoted his
      time, his money, and his tranquillity!  
  Walter and the lawyer awaited his return beneath the porch of the entrance. After the lapse
      of a few moments he appeared, accompanied by a broker of his acquaintance. They then all four
      proceeded together to the office where the business was to be transacted.  
  The broker explained the affair to a clerk, and the clerk, after consulting a huge volume,
      received the documents which Lord Warrington had handed over to Sydney. Having compared those
      papers with the entries in the book, the clerk made a sign to three men who were lounging at
      the upper end of the office, near the stove, and who had the appearance of messengers, or
      porters.  
  These men moved hastily forward, and advanced up to Stephens, Mac Chizzle, and Walter
      Sydney.  
  A deadly pallor spread over the countenance of Stephens; Mac Chizzle appeared alarmed; but
      Walter remained still unsuspicious of danger.  
  "Those are the persons," said the clerk, significantly, as he pointed to the three
      conspirators, to whom he observed, almost in the same breath, "Your plans are detected—these
      men are officers!"  
  "Officers!" ejaculated Sydney; "What does this mean?"  
  "We are here to apprehend you," answered the foremost of those functionaries. "Resistance
      will be vain: there are others outside in readiness."  
  "Merciful heavens!" cried Walter, joining her hands in agony: "Oh! Stephens, to what have
      you brought me!"  
  That unhappy man hung down his head, and made no reply. He felt crushed by this unexpected
      blow, which came upon him at the very instant when the object of his dearest hopes seemed
      within his reach.  
  As for Mac Chizzle, he resigned himself with dogged submission to his fate.  
  The officers and their prisoners now proceeded to the Mansion House, accompanied by the
      clerk and the stock-broker.  
  Sydney—a prey to the most dreadful apprehensions and painful remorse—was compelled to lean
      for support upon the arm of the officer who had charge of her.  
  Sir Peter Laurie sat for the Lord Mayor.  
  The worthy knight is the terror of all swindlers, mock companies, and bubble firms existing
      in the City of London: wherever there is fraud, within the jurisdiction of the civic
      authorities, he is certain to root it out. He has conferred more benefit upon the commercial
      world, and has devoted himself more energetically to protect the interests of the trading
      community, than any other alderman. Unlike the generality of the city magistrates, who are
      coarse, vulgar, ignorant, and narrow-minded men, Sir Peter Laurie is possessed of a high range
      of intellect, and is an enlightened, an agreeable, and a polished gentleman.  
  It was about three o'clock in the afternoon, when Stephens, Mac Chizzle, and Sydney were
      placed in the dock of the Mansion House Police-office.  
  The solicitor of the Bank of England attended for the prosecution.  
  "With what do you charge these prisoners?" demanded the magistrate.  
  "With conspiring to obtain the sum of forty-one thousand pounds from the hands of the Earl
      of Warrington, and the Governor and Company of the Bank of England."  
  "Is his lordship present?"  
  "Your worship, he is, at this moment, unaware of the diabolical fraud that has been
      contemplated, and in part perpetrated upon him. He has given up to the prisoners certain
      documents, which constituted their authority for transferring and selling out the sum I have
      mentioned. By certain means the intentions of the prisoners were discovered some time ago; and
      secret information was given to the Bank directors upon the subject. The directors were not,
      however, permitted to communicate with the Earl of Warrington, under penalty of receiving no
      farther information from the quarter whence the original warning emanated. Under all
      circumstances, I shall content myself with stating sufficient to support the charge to-day, so
      that your worship may remand the prisoners until a period when the attendance of the Earl of
      Warrington can be procured."  
  "State your case."  
  "I charge this prisoner," said the solicitor, pointing towards Sydney, "with endeavouring to
      obtain the sum of forty-one thousand pounds from the Governor and Company of the Bank of
      England, under pretence of being one Walter Sydney, a man—whereas the prisoner's name is Eliza
      Sydney, and she is a woman!"  
  An immense sensation prevailed in the justice-room at this announcement.  
  The disguised lady moaned audibly, and leant against the bar of the dock for support.  
  "And I charge the other prisoners, Robert Stephens and Hugh Mac Chizzle, with aiding and
      abetting in the crime," added the solicitor, after a pause.  
  The unhappy lady, yielding to emotions and feelings which she was now no longer able to
      control, threw herself upon her knees, clasped her hands together in an agony of grief, and
      exclaimed, "It is true! I am not what I seem! I have been guilty of a fearful deception—a
      horrible cheat: but it was he—he," she cried, pointing to Stephens, "who made me do it!"  
  There was an universal sentiment of deep sympathy with the female prisoner, throughout the
      court; and the worthy alderman himself was affected.  
  "You must remember," he said, in a kind tone, "that anything which you admit here, may be
      used against you elsewhere."  
    
  "Under these circumstances," said the alderman, "let the case stand over until
      to-morrow."  
  The prisoners were then removed.  
  In another hour they were inmates of the Giltspur-street Compter.  
  And how terminated the 26th of November for Walter Sydney? Instead of being in possession of
      an ample fortune, and about to visit a clime where she hoped to enjoy all the blessings of
      domestic tranquillity, and the charms of rural bliss, she found herself a prisoner, charged
      with a crime of deep dye!  
  Oh! what a sudden reverse was this!  
  Still, upon that eventful day, there was one hope of hers fulfilled. She threw aside her
      masculine attire, and assumed the garb adapted to her sex. A messenger was despatched to the
      villa, to communicate the sad tidings of the arrest to Louisa, and procure suitable clothing
      for her wretched mistress.  
  But, alas! that garb in which she had so ardently desired to appear again, was now doomed to
      be worn, for the first time, in a prison:—the new epoch of her life, which was to be marked by
      a return to feminine habits, was commenced in a dungeon!  
  Still that new period had begun; and from henceforth we shall know her only by her real name
      of Eliza Sydney.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXI. EXPLANATIONS.  
  WITH the greatest forethought and the best taste, Louisa had forwarded to her mistress the
      most simple and unassuming garb which the boudoir contained, amongst its miscellaneous
      articles of female attire.  
  Dressed in the garments which suited her sex, Eliza was a fine and elegant woman—above the
      common female height, yet graceful in her deportment, and charming in all her movements. Her
      shoulders possessed that beautiful slope, and the contours of her bust were modelled in that
      ample and voluptuous mould, which form such essential elements of superb and majestic
      loveliness.  
  Although so long accustomed to masculine attire, there was nothing awkward—nothing
      constrained in her gait; her step was free and light, and her pace short, as if that
      exquisitely turned ankle, and long narrow foot had never known aught save the softest silken
      hose, and the most delicate prunella shoes.  
  In a word, the beauty of Eliza Sydney was of a lofty and imposing order;—a pale high brow,
      melting hazel eyes, a delicately-chiselled mouth and nose, and a form whose matured expansion
      and height were rendered more commanding by its exquisite symmetry of proportions.  
  The morning journals published an account of the extraordinary attempt at fraud detected at
      the Bank on the previous day; and the utmost curiosity was evinced by an immense crowd that
      had collected to obtain a view of the prisoners, especially the female one, as they alighted
      from the separate cabs in which they were conveyed to the Mansion House for re-examination.
      Eliza's countenance was flushed and animated, and the expression of her eyes denoted profound
      mental excitement: Stephens was ghastly pale:—the lawyer maintained a species of sullen and
      reserved composure.  
  The police-office at the Mansion House was crowded to excess. Sir Peter Laurie presided; and
      on his right hand was seated the Earl of Warrington. Mr. Pakenham was also present, in company
      with the solicitor of the Bank of England.  
  The moment the prisoners appeared in the dock, Eliza in a firm tone addressed the
      magistrate, and intimated her intention of making the most ample confession, in accordance
      with her promise of the preceding day. She was accommodated with a chair, and the chief clerk
      proceeded to take down the narrative which detailed the origin and progress of this most
      extraordinary conspiracy.  
  Alas! that so criminal a tale should have been accompanied by the music of that flute-like
      voice; and that so foul a history should have emanated from so sweet a mouth. Those words of
      guilt which trembled upon her lips, resembled the slime of the snail upon the leaf of the
      rose.  
  When the confession of Eliza Sydney was fully taken down, and signed by her, the Earl of
      Warrington's solicitor entered into a statement which placed the magistrate in full possession
      of the facts of the case.  
  We shall now proceed to acquaint our readers with the complete history formed by these
      revelations.  
  "The late Earl of Warrington was a man of eccentric and peculiar habits. An accident in his
      infancy had rendered his person deformed and stunted his growth; and, being endowed with
      tender feelings and acute susceptibilities, he could not bear to mingle in that society where
      his own physical defects were placed in strong contrast with the fine figures, handsome
      countenances, and manly forms of many of his aristocratic acquaintances. He possessed a
      magnificent estate in Cambridgeshire; and in the country seat attached to that domain did he
      pass the greater portion of his time in solitude.  
  "The bailiff of the Warrington estate was a widower, and possessed an only child—a daughter.
      Letitia Hardinge was about sixteen years of age when the Earl first took up his abode in
      Cambridgeshire, in the year 1790. She was not good looking; but she possessed a mild and
      melancholy expression of countenance, and an amiability of disposition, which rendered her an
      object of interest to all who knew her. She was fond of reading; and the library at the
      neighbouring mansion was always open to her inspection.  
  "The reserved and world-shunning Earl soon became attracted towards Letitia Hardinge. He
      found that she possessed a high order of intellect; and he delighted to converse with her. By
      degrees he experienced a deep attachment towards a being whose society often relieved the
      monotonous routine of his life; and the gratitude which Letitia entertained towards the Earl
      for his kindness to her, soon partook of a more tender feeling. She found herself interested
      in a nobleman of high rank and boundless wealth, who was compelled to avoid the great world
      where the homage shown to his proud name appeared to him to be a mockery of his physical
      deformity; she ministered to him with all a woman's devotedness, during a tedious and painful
      malady which seized upon him shortly after his arrival in Cambridgeshire; and at length her
      presence became as it were necessary to him.  
   and the day that made the Earl the father of a daughter, robbed him of the
      mother of that innocent child who was thus born in sin!  
  "Letitia Hardinge, the Earl's natural child, grew up in health and beauty. The father was
      dotingly attached to her, and watched her growth with pride and adoration. She was sixteen
      years of age, when Frederick, the Earl's nephew and heir presumptive to the title and vast
      estates of the family, arrived in Cambridgeshire to pay his respects to his uncle, on his
      emancipation from college. The young man's parents had both died in his infancy, and he was
      entirely dependant upon the Earl.  
  "Letitia Hardinge passed as the niece of the Earl of Warrington. Frederick was acquainted
      with the real history of the young lady; and, previous to his arrival at the mansion of his
      uncle, he was not prepared to treat her with any excess of civility. He was brought up in that
      aristocratic school which looks upon pure blood as a necessary element of existence, and as
      alone entitled to respect. But he had not been many days in the society of Miss Hardinge,
      before his ideas upon this subject underwent a complete change, and he could not help admiring
      her. Admiration soon led to love:—he became deeply enamoured of her!  
  "The Earl beheld this attachment on his part, and was rejoiced. An union between the two
      cousins would secure to his adored daughter that rank and social position, which he was most
      anxious for her to occupy. As the wife of the heir presumptive to the richest Earldom in the
      realm, her origin would never be canvassed nor thought of. But Letitia herself returned not
      the young man's love. By one of those extraordinary caprices, which so often characterise even
      the strongest female minds, she had taken a profound aversion to her suitor; and being of a
      high and independent disposition, not even the dazzling prospect of wealth and title could
      move her heart in his favour.  
  "There was a farmer upon the Earl's estate, of the name of Sydney. He had a son whose
      Christian name was Stanford—a handsome but sickly youth, and by no means comparable to the
      polished and intellectual Frederick. Nevertheless, Letitia entertained for this young man an
      affection bordering upon madness. The Earl discovered her secret, and was deeply afflicted at
      his daughter's predilection. He remonstrated with her, and urged the necessity of conquering
      her inclinations in this respect. It was then that she showed the temper and the spirit of
         a spoiled child  , and declared that she would follow the dictates of her own mind in
      preference to every other consideration. The Earl swore a most solemn oath,   that if she
       dared marry Stanford Sydney, neither she nor her husband should ever receive one single
       shilling from him  !  
  "Reckless of this threat—indifferent to the feelings of that father who had cherished her so
      fondly, the perverse girl one morning abandoned the paternal home, and fled with Stanford
      Sydney, on whom she bestowed her hand. The blow came like a thunderbolt upon the head of the
      old Earl. He was naturally of a delicate and infirm constitution; and this sudden misfortune
      proved too much for his debilitated frame. He took to his bed; and a few hours before his
      death he made a will consistent with his oath. He left all his property to his nephew, with
      the exception of forty-one thousand pounds—the amount of his savings since he had inherited
      the title. This will ordained that his nephew should enjoy the interest of this sum; but that,
      should Letitia bear a male child to Stanford Sydney, such issue should, upon attaining the age
      of twenty-one years, receive as his portion the above sum of forty-one thousand pounds. Such
      was the confidence which the old Earl possessed in his nephew, that he left the execution of
      this provision to him. It was also enacted by that will, that should the said Letitia die
      without bearing a son to the said Stanford Sydney; or should a son born of her die previously
      to attaining his twenty-first year, then the sum alluded to should become the property of
      Frederick.  
  "The old man died, a prey to the deepest mental affliction—indeed, literally
      heart-broken—shortly after making this will. Frederick, who was honour and integrity
      personified, determined upon fulfilling all the instructions of his uncle to the very
      letter.  
  "The fruits of the union of Stanford Sydney and Letitia Hardinge were a daughter and a son.
      The name of the former was Eliza: that of the latter was Walter. Eliza was a strong and
      healthy child; Walter was sickly and ailing from his birth. Shortly after the birth of Walter,
      the father, who had long been in a deep decline, paid the debt of nature. Letitia was then
      left a widow, with two young children, and nothing but a small farm for her support. Her high
      spirit prevented her from applying to the Earl of Warrington—the man whose love she had
      slighted and scorned; and thus she had to struggle with poverty and misfortune in rearing and
      educating her fatherless progeny. The farm which she tenanted was situated in Berkshire,
      whither she and her husband had removed immediately after the death of the father of Stanford.
      This farm belonged to a gentleman of the name of Stephens—a merchant of respectability and
      property, in the City of London.  
  "It was in the year 1829 that Robert Stephens appeared at the farm-house, to announce the
      death of his father and his inheritance of all the landed property which had belonged to the
      deceased. The widow was considerably in arrears of rent: Stephens inquired into her condition
      and prospects, and learnt from her lips her entire history—that history which, from motives of
      disappointed pride, she had religiously concealed from her children. She was well aware of the
      provisions of the late Earl's will; but she had determined not to acquaint either Eliza or
      Walter with the clause relative to the fortune, until the majority of the latter. Towards
      Stephens she did not manifest the same reserve, the revelation of that fact being necessary to
      convince him that she possessed good perspective chances of settling those long arrears, which
      she was in the meantime totally unable to liquidate.  
  "Robert Stephens was immediately attracted towards that family. It was not the beauty of
      Eliza which struck him:—he was a cold, calculating man of the world, and considered female
      loveliness as mere dross compared to sterling gold. He found that Walter was an amiable and
      simple-hearted youth, and he hoped to turn to his own advantage the immense inheritance which
      awaited the lad at his majority. He accordingly treated Mrs. Sydney with every indulgence,
      forgiving her the arrears already accumulated, and lowering her rent in future. He thus gained
      an immense influence over the family; and when a sudden malady threw the widow upon her
      death-bed, it was to Stephens that she recommended her children.  
   gratitude, attachment, and confidence. But his designs were abruptly menaced in
      an alarming manner. The seeds of consumption, which had been sown by paternal tradition in the
      constitution of Walter, germinated with fatal effect; and on the 14th of February, 1831, he
      surrendered up his spirit.  
  "Scarcely had the breath left the body of the youth, when Stephens, by that species of magic
      influence which he had already begun to exercise over Eliza, induced her to assume her
      brother's garb; and she was taught to believe, even by the very side of his corpse, that
      immense interests were connected with her compliance with his wish. An old woman was the only
      female attendant at the farm-house; and she was easily persuaded to spread a report amongst
      the neighbours that it was the daughter who was dead. Eliza did not stir abroad: Stephens
      managed the funeral, and gave instructions for the entry in the parish register of the burial
      of Eliza Sidney; and, as Eliza immediately afterwards repaired to the Villa at Clapton, the
      fraud was not suspected in the neighbourhood of the Berkshire farm.  
  "Stephens duly communicated the deaths of Mrs. Sydney and Eliza to the Earl of Warrington,
      and obtained an introduction to this nobleman. He called occasionally in Grosvenor Square,
      during this interval of four years and nine months which occurred between the reported death
      of Eliza and the 26th of November, 1835; and invariably took care to mention not only that
      Walter was in good health, but that he was residing at the Villa. His lordship, however, on no
      occasion expressed a wish to see the young man; for years had failed to wipe away the
      impression made upon Frederick's mind by the deceased Letitia Hardinge!  
  "When Stephens introduced the disguised Eliza to the nobleman, as Walter Sydney, upon the
      morning of the 26th of November, the Earl entertained not the least suspicion of fraud. He
      knew that Stephens was the son of an eminent merchant, and that he was well spoken of in
      society; and he was moreover anxious to complete a ceremony which only recalled painful
      reminiscences to his mind. Thus, so far as his lordship was concerned, the deceit was managed
      with the most complete success; and there is no doubt that the entire scheme might have been
      carried out, and the secret have remained for ever undiscovered, had not a private warning
      been communicated in time to the Bank of England."  
  Such was the complete narrative formed by the statement of the Earl of Warrington, through
      his solicitor, and the confession of Eliza Sydney. The history excited the most extraordinary
      interest in all who heard it; and there was a powerful feeling of sympathy and commiseration
      in favour of Eliza. Even Lord Warrington himself looked once or twice kindly upon her.  
  The examination which elicited all the facts detailed in the narrative, and the evidence
      gone into to prove the attempt to obtain possession of the money at the Bank of England,
      occupied until four o'clock in the afternoon; when the magistrate committed Robert Stephens,
      Hugh Mac Chizzle, and Eliza Sydney to Newgate, to take their trials at the approaching session
      of the Central Criminal Court.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXII. THE OLD BAILEY.  
  THE sessions of the Central Criminal Court commenced.  
  The street of the Old Bailey was covered with straw; and the pavement in the neighbourhood
      of the doors of the court on one side, and of the public-houses on the other, was crowded with
      policemen, the touters of the barristers and attornies practising criminal law, and the
      friends of the prisoners whose trials were expected to come on that day.  
  The press-yard, which is situate between the solid granite wall of Newgate and the
      Court-house, was also flooded with living waves, which rolled onwards from the street to the
      flight of steps leading into the gallery of the Old Court. In former times, prisoners who
      refused to plead, were pressed beneath immense weights, until they would consent to declare
      themselves guilty or not guilty. This odious punishment was inflicted in that enclosure: hence
      its name of the press-yard.  
  It cannot be necessary to describe the court-house, with its dark sombre walls, and its huge
      ventilator at the top. Alas! the golden bowl of hope has been broken within those walls, and
      the knell of many a miserable wretch has been rung upon its tribunals from the lips of the
      judge!  
  The street of the Old Bailey presents quite an animated appearance during the sessions;—but
      it is horrible to reflect that numbers of the policemen who throng in that thoroughfare upon
      those occasions, have trumped up the charges for which prisoners have been committed for
      trial, in order to obtain a holiday, and extort from the county the expenses of attending as
      witnesses.  
  At the time of which our tale treats, the sheriffs were accustomed to provide two dinners
      for the judges every day; one at three, and the other at five o'clock, so that those who could
      not attend the first, were enabled to take their seats at the second. Marrow puddings,
      beef-steaks, and boiled rounds of beef, invariably formed the staple commodities of these
      repasts; and it was the duty of the ordinary chaplains of Newgate to act as vice-presidents at
      both meals. This ceremony was always performed by those reverend gentlemen: the ecclesiastical
      gourmands contrived, during sessions, to eat two dinners every day, and wash each down with a
      very tolerable allowance of wine.  
  We said that the Sessions commenced. On the Monday and Tuesday, the Recorder in the Old
      Court, and the Common Sergeant in the New, tried those prisoners who were charged with minor
      offences: on the Wednesday the Judges upon the   rota   took their seats on the bench of
      the Old Court.  
  Richard Markham's name stood first for trial upon the list on that day. He was conducted
      from Newgate by means of a subterraneous passage, running under the Press-yard, into the dock
      of the Court.  
  The Hall was crowded to excess, for the case had produced a profound sensation. The moment
      Markham appeared in the dock, every eye was fixed upon him. His countenance was very pale; but
      his demeanour was firm. He cast one glance around, and then looked only towards the twelve men
      who were to decide upon his fate. Close by the dock stood Mr. Monroe: Whittingham was in the
      gallery;—the Baronet, Chichester, and Talbot lounged together near the reporters' box.  
   majority, would become possessed of a considerable fortune; but that in the mean
      time he had no doubt fallen into bad company, for it would be proved that he was arrested by
      the police at a common gambling house in the evening of the very same day on which he had
      committed the offence with which he was now charged. It was but natural to presume that this
      young man had imbibed the habit of gaming, and, having thereby involved himself in pecuniary
      embarrassments, had adopted the desperate and fatal expedient of obtaining money by means of
      forged Bank-notes, rather than communicate his situation to his guardian. Where he procured
      these forged notes, it was impossible to say: it would, however, be satisfactorily proved to
      the jury that he passed a forged note for five hundred pounds at the banking-house of Messrs.
      ——, and that when he was arrested a second note for fifty pounds was found upon his person.
      Several concurrent circumstances established the guilt of the prisoner. On the evening
      previous to his arrest, the prisoner dined with Sir Rupert Harborough, Mr. Chichester, and Mr.
      Talbot; and when these gentlemen proposed a walk after dessert, the prisoner requested them to
      accompany him to a common gaming-house in the Quadrant. They refused; but finding him
      determined to visit that den, they agreed to go with him, with the friendly intention of
      taking care that he was not plundered of his money, he being considerably excited by the wine
      he had been drinking. Ere he set out, the prisoner enquired if either of his companions could
      change him a fifty pound note; but neither gentleman had sufficient gold to afford the
      accommodation required. Now was it not fair to presume that the prisoner intended to pass off
      upon one of his friends the very forged fifty-pound note subsequently found upon him? On the
      following day, the prisoner—the moment he was released from custody on the charge of being
      found in a common gaming-house—hurried home, and ordered his servants to prepare for his
      immediate departure for the continent. He moreover wrote two letters, which would be read to
      the jury,—one to a lady, and the other to his guardian,—and both containing unequivocal
      admission of his guilt. The learned counsel then read the letters, and commented upon their
      contents at some length. There were several expressions (he said) which clearly tended to
       self-crimination.—"  Circumstances of a very peculiar nature, and which I cannot at present
       explain, compel me to quit London thus abruptly.  " "  I could not have remained in
       London another minute with safely to myself.  " "  I conceive it to be my duty—in
       consequence of rumours which may shortly reach you concerning me—to inform you that I have
       this moment only awoke to the fearful perils of the career in which I have for some weeks
       past been blindly hurrying along, till at length yesterday——.  " "  I am penitent,
       deeply penitent: let this statement induce you to defend and protect my reputation.  " The
      last paragraph but one, which concluded so abruptly with the words, "  till at length
       yesterday——   " clearly pointed to the crime with which the prisoner was now charged; and
      the last paragraph of all undeniably implored Mr. Monroe, the young man's guardian, to hush up
      the matter the moment it should reach his ears.  
  The clerk at the banking-house, who changed the five hundred pound note for the prisoner,
      then gave his evidence.  
  At length Sir Rupert Harborough was called into the witness-box; and he deposed that the
      prisoner had dined with him on the evening previous to his arrest; that he very pressingly
      solicited him (Sir Rupert), and Mr. Chichester, and Mr. Talbot, to accompany him to the
      gambling-house; and that he moreover, enquired if either of them could accommodate him with
      change for a fifty pound note.  
  Mr. Chichester was called next. He stated the line of defence adopted by the prisoner at
      Bow-street, and positively denied having ever given the prisoner any notes to change for
      him.  
  Markham's counsel cross-examined this witness with great severity.  
  "What are you, sir?"  
  "A private gentleman."  
  "What are your means of subsistence?"  
  "I receive an allowance from my father."  
  "Who is your father? Now, take care, sir, how you answer that question."  
  "He is a commercial man, sir."  
  "Is he not a tradesman?"  
  "Well,—he is a tradesman, then—if you like it."  
  "Yes,—I do like it. Now—upon your oath—is he not a pawnbroker in Brick-lane, Bethnal
      Green?"  
  "He is a goldsmith in a large way of business, and lends money occasionally——"  
  "Ha!" complacently observed the counsel for the defence. "Go on, sir:   lends money
       occasionally  —"  
  "Upon real security, I suppose," added Chichester, taken considerably aback by these
      questions.  
  "Upon deposits; let us give things their proper names. He lends money upon flannel
      petticoat—watches—flat-irons, &amp;c.," observed the barrister, with withering sarcasm. "But I
      have not done with you yet, sir. Was your father—this very respectable pawnbroker—ever
      elevated to the peerage?"  
  "He was not, sir."  
  "Then how come you by the distinction of   Honourable   prefixed to your name?"  
  Mr. Chichester hung down his head, and made no reply. The counsel for the prisoner repeated
      the question in a deliberate and emphatic matter. At length, Mr. Chichester was fairly bullied
      into a humble acknowledgment "that he had no right to the distinction, but that he had assumed
      it as a convenient West-End appendage." The cross examination then proceeded.  
  "Did you not travel under the name of Winchester?"  
  "I did—in Germany."  
  "With what motive did you assume a false name?"  
  "I had no particular motive."  
  "Did you not leave England in debt? and were you not afraid of your bills of exchange
      following you abroad?"  
  "There is some truth in that; but the most honourable men are frequently involved in
      pecuniary difficulties."  
  "Answer my questions, sir, and make no observations. You will leave me to do that, if you
      please. Now sir—tell the jury whether you were not accompanied by a valet or coachman in your
      German trip?"  
  "I am always accustomed to travel with a domestic."  
    
  "I certainly had a dispute with a gentleman at cards: and I left the town next morning."  
  "Yes—and you left your clothes and your servant behind you—and your bill unpaid at the
      hotel?"  
  "But I have since met my servant, and paid him more than double the wages then due."  
  "You may stand down, sir," said the counsel for the defence—a permission of which the
      witness availed himself with surprising alacrity.  
  The counsel for the prosecution now called Mr. Whittingham. The poor butler ascended the
      witness-box with a rueful countenance; and, after an immense amount of badgering and baiting,
      admitted that his young master had meditated a sudden and abrupt departure from England, the
      very day upon which he was arrested. In his cross-examination he declared that the motives of
      the journey were founded upon certain regrets which Richard entertained at having permitted
      himself to be led away by Messrs. Chichester and Talbot, and Sir Rupert Harborough.  
  "And, my Lords," ejaculated the old domestic, elevating his voice, "Master Richard is no
      more guilty of this here circumwention than either one of your Lordships; but the man that did
      it all is that there Chichester, which bilked his wally-de-shamble, and that wulgar fellow,
      Talbot, which called me   a tulip  ."  
  This piece of eloquence was delivered with much feeling; and the Judges smiled—for, they
      appreciated the motives of the honest old domestic.  
  The officer who arrested Markham, proved that he found upon his person, when he searched him
      at Bow Street, a pocket-book, containing between thirty and forty pounds, in notes and gold,
      together with a note for fifty pounds.  
  A clerk from the Bank of England proved that both the note for five hundred pounds changed
      at the bankers, and the one for fifty just alluded to, were forgeries.  
  The case for the prosecution here closed; and the Judges retired to partake of some
      refreshment.  
  Markham had leisure to think over the proceedings of the morning. He was literally astounded
      when he contemplated the diabolical perjury committed by Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr.
      Chichester; but he entertained the most sanguine hope that the discredit thrown upon the
      character of the latter would render his testimony worthless. He shuddered when he reflected
      how ingeniously the counsel for the prosecution had grouped together those circumstances which
      told against him; and then again a ray of satisfaction animated his countenance, when he
      remembered that his counsel would speedily show those circumstances in a new light.  
  The Judges returned: silence prevailed throughout the hall; and the prisoner's counsel rose
      for the defence. Richard seated himself in the dock, and prepared to listen with the greatest
      attention to the speech of his advocate; and Whittingham placed his hand in a curved position
      behind his ear, in order to assist that organ on the present important occasion.  
  The counsel for the defence began by giving some account of the family and social position
      of the prisoner, who was born of parents accustomed to move in the first rank of life, and who
      was the heir to a fortune of no inconsiderable amount. During his minority, his guardian, who
      was then present, had promised to allow the prisoner six hundred pounds a-year. With these
      pecuniary advantages, it was absurd to suppose that a young man of education—a young man whose
      noble and honourable feelings had been the object of remark on the part of all his friends,
      and who had only to express a want to his guardian, in order to receive its immediate
      gratification—it was absurd to imagine that such an individual would either enter into a
      conspiracy with others, or plan by himself, for the purpose of raising money upon forged
      notes. No—this young man was one of a most generous and confiding disposition; and, as he had
      seen but little of the world, he was totally unacquainted with its wiles and artifices. Thus
      was he made the dupe of some designing villains, at his very outset upon life. The whole
      history of the present transaction was to be summed up in a few words. A gang of conspirators
      had hit upon the desperate mode of passing forged notes, in order to retrieve their ruined
      fortunes. Not as magnanimous as the highwayman who perils his own existence while he
      perpetrates a crime, these men required a tool of whom they might make use, and who could be
      at any time sacrificed to save them. This instrument—this scapegoat, was the prisoner at the
      bar. The witness, whose real name was Chichester, but who, by his own confession, had
      travelled on the Continent under another denomination, was not a person on whom the Jury could
      place any reliance. He had assumed a distinction to which he was by no means entitled—he had
      affected all the arrogance and importance of a man of rank and fashion,—whereas he was the son
      of a pawnbroker in the refined locality of Brick-Lane, Bethnal Green! Endowed with much
      impudence, clever in imitating the manners of his superiors, and well versed in all the
      intricacies and subtleties of the world, this possessor of assumed distinctions—this
      swaggering imitator of a class far above him—this adventurer, with fascinating conversation,
      ready wit, amusing anecdote, and fashionable attire,—this   roué   of the present day,
      with jewellery about his person, and gold in his pocket—allowing ever an engaging smile to
      play upon his lips, and professing unmitigated disgust at the slightest appearance of
      vulgarity in another,—this individual—this Mr. Chichester was the principal witness whom the
      counsel for the prosecution had brought forward. But no English Jury would condemn a fellow
      creature upon such testimony—the testimony of one who was compelled to fly ignominiously and
      precipitately from Baden, on account of some rascality at cards, and who left his domestic in
      a strange land, pennyless, ignorant of the language, and surrounded by the odium which also
      attached itself to the name of his master. The prisoner had no motive in passing forged notes,
      because he was wealthy;—but Mr. Chichester had a motive, because he evidently lived far beyond
      the means which his father could allow him.  
  The learned counsel here related the manner in which Richard had been induced to change the
      larger note, and had become possessed of the smaller.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  He then proceeded to observe, that the letters addressed to Mrs. Arlington and Mr. Monroe
      related to the fact that the prisoner's eyes had been suddenly opened to the characters of his
      associates, and to the career of dissipation in which they were leading him. The phrase upon
      which so much stress had been laid—"  till at length yesterday  ——" alluded to the
      suicide of a young officer, which had taken place while the prisoner was at the
      gambling-house, whither he had been inveigled instead of inveigling others. "  He could not
       have remained in London another minute with safety to himself.   accidently picked up, would not leave him quiet. They regularly beset him.
       "  He was penitent  ;" and he hoped that Mr. Monroe would "  defend and protect his
       reputation  ." Yes—when the newspaper reports conveyed to the knowledge of that gentleman
      the fact that his ward had been arrested in a common gambling-house, and fined for being
      there. The letters were written hurriedly, and were ambiguous: thus they were susceptible of
      more than one interpretation. Let the jury interpret them in favour of the prisoner. It was
      better to send a dozen guilty men back again into society, terrible as that evil would be,
      than to condemn   one   compelled to decamp from Baden, for cheating at cards! Then it was stated that
      the prisoner asked for change for a fifty-pound note; and it was said, that he would have
      availed himself of that accommodation to pass a forged note. Why—he (the learned counsel) had
      already explained how that fifty-pound note came into the prisoner's possession—his own gold
      having been transferred by Mr. Chichester to Sir Rupert Harborough's writing-desk! The learned
      counsel concluded, by asking how it happened that no other forged Bank of England notes—no
      copper-plates to print them with—no materials for such a fraud, were found at the prisoner's
      house? Could it be supposed that a young man with his prospects would risk his reputation and
      his safety for a few hundreds of pounds? The idea was preposterous. The prisoner's counsel
      entered into a few minute points of the evidence which told in favour of his client, and wound
      up with a powerful appeal to the jury in his behalf.  
  Richard followed, with absorbing interest, the able defence made for him by his counsel; and
      his soul was filled with hope as each fact and argument in his favour was divested of all
      mystery, and lucidly exhibited to the consideration of the court.  
  Mr. Monroe was summoned to the witness box, and he proved the statements made by the
      prisoner's counsel relative to the pecuniary position of his ward. Snoggles, the ostler,
      followed, and very freely stated all the particulars of his late master's precipitate
      decampment from Baden.  
  Thus terminated the case for the defence.  
  The counsel of the prosecution—according to that odious right which gives the accusing party
      the last word in those instances where the defendant has called witnesses—rose to reply. He
      stated that neither the wealth nor the social position of an individual afforded a certain
      guarantee against crime. Besides, the law must not always be swayed by the apparent absence of
      motives; because some of the most extraordinary deeds of turpitude upon record had never been
      traced to a source which could satisfactorily account for their origin. The
         perpetration   was the object which the jury had to keep in view; and the use of
      evidence was to prove or deny that perpetration by some particular individual. A forgery had
      been committed, and money obtained by the prisoner at the bar through the agency of that
      forgery. The defence had not attempted to deny that the prisoner was the individual who had
      thus obtained the money. The point to be considered was, whether the prisoner knew the note to
      be a forged one; and he (the learned counsel) considered that an assemblage of circumstances
      of a most unequivocal nature stamped the prisoner with that guilt. Mr. Chichester's evidence
      went to show that he himself never gave any notes to the prisoner. Even if Chichester were
      proved to be a disreputable person, there was nothing beyond the prisoner's mere assertion
      (made through his counsel) to prove that he had received the two notes from Chichester. Mr.
      Chichester had certainly assumed another name during his German tour, but it was for the
      purpose of avoiding arrest in a foreign land upon bills of exchange which might have been sent
      from England after him. He had, moreover, assumed the distinction of   Honourable  —a
      foolish vanity, but by no means a crime; for half the Englishmen who were called
         Captain  , were no more captains than he (the learned counsel) was.  
  The senior judge now summoned up the evidence to the jury; and the most profound interest
      was still manifested by all present in the proceedings. The learned judge occupied nearly two
      hours in his charge to the jury, whom he put in possession of all the points of the case which
      it was necessary to consider.  
  The jury retired, and debated for a considerable time upon their verdict.  
  This was the dread interval of suspense. Richard's countenance was deadly pale; and his lips
      were firmly compressed in order to prevent any sudden ebullition of feeling—a weakness to
      which he seemed for a moment inclined to yield. Mr. Monroe did not entertain much hope; the
      summing up of the judge had been unfavourable to Markham. As for Whittingham, he shook his
      head dolefully from time to time, and murmured, loud enough to be heard by those near him,
      "Oh! Master Richard, Master Richard! who would ever have propulgated an opinion that you would
      have been brought into such a fixture as this? It's all along of them fellers which call
      butlers   tulips  !"  
  How singularly reckless is the mind of man with regard to the destinies of those to whom he
      is not connected by any ties of blood or friendship! While the jury were absent, discussing
      their verdict, the various barristers, assembled round the table, began chattering together,
      and laughing, and telling pleasant anecdotes, as if the fate of a fellow-creature was by no
      means compromised at that moment. The counsel for the prosecution, who had done his duty by
      exerting all his talents, all his energies, and all his eloquence, to obtain the conviction of
      a youth who had never injured him, and whom he had never seen before, coolly took up a
      newspaper and perused it with evident gratification; while, at a little distance from him,
      stood the individual whom he had so zealously and earnestly sought to render miserable for
      life!  
   dependant upon him, and that will starve without him!  
  O God! is it possible that man can have been made for such sad purposes? is it possible that
      the being   whom thou hast created after thine own image  , should be so demon-like in
      heart?  
  Oh! if the prisoner standing in the dock had inflicted some terrible injury upon the honour
      or the family of the barrister who holds a brief against him, then were it easy to comprehend
      that profound anxiety on the part of this barrister, to send the trembling criminal to the
      gallows! But, no—that barrister has no revenge to gratify—no hatred to assuage—no malignity to
      appease; he toils to take away that man's life, with all his strength, with all his talent,
      and with all his energy, because he has received gold to do his best to obtain a
      conviction!  
  Ah! what a hideous traffic in flesh and blood!  
  And if any one were to say to that barrister, "Thou art a blood-thirsty and merciless
      wretch," he would answer coolly and confidently, "No: on the other hand, I subscribe to
      philanthropic institutions!"  
  The jury returned; and the feeling uppermost in their minds was satisfaction at the prospect
      of being so speedily dismissed, to their respective homes, where they would pursue their
      efforts after wealth, and speedily forget the youth whom they had condemned to punishment, and
      whose prospects they had blasted.  
  For their verdict was   Guilty  !  
  And the judges hastened to terminate the proceedings.  
  Richard was commanded to rise, and receive the sentence of the court. He obeyed with a kind
      of mechanical precision—for his mental energies were entirely prostrated. The voice of the
      judge addressing him rang like the chimes of distant bells in his ears;—the numerous persons
      whom he beheld around, appeared to be all moving and agitating like an immense crowd assembled
      to witness an execution.  
  He stood up as he was commanded; and the Judge proceeded to pass sentence upon him. He said
      that the court took his youth into consideration, and that there were circumstances which
      would render a very lenient sentence satisfactory to that society which had been outraged. The
      court accordingly condemned him to two years' imprisonment in the Giltspur Street Compter,
      without hard labour.  
  "That's all!" said the spectators to each other; and they appeared disappointed!  
  The audience then separated.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXIII. ANOTHER DAY AT THE OLD BAILEY.  
  RICHARD was conveyed back to Newgate in a state of mind which can be more easily imagined
      than described. The Judges returned in their handsome carriages, to their splendid abodes;—the
      prosecuting barrister, that zealous and enthusiastic defender of social morality, hastened to
      the Temple to entertain a couple of prostitutes in his chambers;—and the various lawyers
      engaged about the court, hurried to their respective homes to prepare writs relating to fresh
      cases of turpitude and crime for the morrow.  
  Richard had shaken hands with Monroe and Whittingham over the parapet of the dock—he would
      not be allowed to see them again for three months! They still believed in his
      innocence—although twelve men that afternoon had declared their conviction of his guilt!  
  On the ensuing morning the trial of Eliza Sydney, Robert Stephens, and Hugh Mac Chizzle took
      place. As on the preceding day, the court was crowded from floor to roof. The bench was filled
      with the ladies and daughters of the aldermen; there was a full attendance of barristers; and
      extra reporters occupied the box devoted to the gentlemen of the press. The case had created
      an extraordinary sensation, not only in consequence of the immensity of the stake played for
      by the prisoners, but also on account of the remarkable fraud practised by one of the most
      lovely women that had ever breathed the air of this world.  
  Eliza was dressed with extreme simplicity, but great taste. A straw bonnet with a plain
      riband, enclosed her pale but charming countenance: there was a soft and bewitching melancholy
      in her eyes; and her moist red lips were slightly apart as if she breathed with difficulty.
      She was a woman of a strong mind, as we have said before; and she endeavoured to restrain her
      emotions to the utmost of her power. She did not condescend to cast a look upon her fellow
      prisoners; nor during the trial were her glances once turned towards them.  
  Stephens appeared to be suffering with acute mental pain: his countenance was cadaverous, so
      pale and altered was it;—even his very lips were white. Mac Chizzle still retained an air of
      dogged sullenness, approaching to brutal indifference.  
  The earl of Warrington was in attendance.  
  When called upon to plead, Stephens and the lawyer replied   Not Guilty  ; Eliza
      answered   Guilty   in a firm and audible voice.  
  As the entire facts of the case are known to the readers, we need not enter into any fresh
      details. Suffice it to say, that when the Jury had delivered their verdict of   Guilty  
      against the two male prisoners, the earl of Warrington rose, and in a most feeling and
      handsome manner interceded with the court in behalf of Eliza Sydney. Eliza herself was quite
      overcome with this unexpected generosity, and burst into a flood of tears.  
  The foreman of the jury also rose and observed that, though the female prisoner had taken
      her case out of their hands by pleading guilty, the jury were nevertheless unanimous in
      recommending her to the favourable consideration of the court.  
  The Judge proceeded to pass sentence. He said, "Robert Stephens, you have been guilty of one
      of the most serious attempts at fraud, which, in a commercial country and a civilised
      community, could be perpetrated. You have moreover availed yourself of your influence over a
      young and confiding woman—an influence obtained by a series of kind actions towards her
      mother, her late brother, and herself—to convert her into the instrument of your guilty
      designs. The court cannot pass over your case without inflicting the severest penalty which
      the law allows. The sentence of the Court is that you be transported beyond the seas for the
      term of your natural life."  
   then, when I unveiled my designs, she shrank from the part she had to perform;
      and I was compelled to make use of all the specious arguments and all the sophistry I could
      call to my aid, to blind her as to the real nature of the transaction. My Lord, I make these
      few observations in justice to her; I have nothing now to lose or gain by this appeal in her
      behalf."  
  Stephens sank back exhausted in a chair which had been placed in the dock for the
      accommodation of Eliza Sydney; and the lady herself was melted to fresh tears by this proof of
      latent generosity on the part of the man who had been the means of placing her in her present
      sad position.  
  The Judge continued: "Hugh Mac Chizzle, you have been found guilty of aiding and abetting,
      at the last moment, in the consummation of a deed of almost unpardonable fraud. You have taken
      advantage of a profession which invests him who practises it with an appearance of
      respectability, and gives him opportunities of perpetrating, if he be so inclined, enormous
      breaches and abuses of confidence: You stand second in degree of culpability to the prisoner
      Stephens. The sentence of the court, therefore, is, that you be transported beyond the seas
      for the term of fifteen years."  
  There was another momentary pause; and the Judge then proceeded as follows, while the most
      breathless silence prevailed:—  
  "Eliza Sydney, your share in this unfortunate and guilty business has been rather that of an
      instrument than a principal. Still you had arrived, when you first assumed a masculine
      disguise, at the years of discretion, which should have taught you to reflect that no deceit
      can be designed for a good purpose. Your readiness to confess your guilt—the testimony of your
      fellow prisoner in your behalf—the recommendation of the jury—and the intercession of the
      prosecutor, however, weigh with the court. Still a severe punishment must be awarded you; for
      if we were to admit the plea that a person between twenty and thirty is not responsible for
      his or her actions, justice would in numerous cases be defeated, and crime would find constant
      apologies and extenuation. The sentence of the court is that you be imprisoned for the space
      of two years in her Majesty's gaol of Newgate."  
  Eliza had anticipated transportation: she had made up her mind to banishment for at least
      seven years, from her native clime. The observation of the Judge that "a severe punishment
      must be awarded her," had confirmed her in that impression. The concluding words of that
      functionary had therefore taken her by surprise—a surprise so sudden that it overcame her. She
      tottered, and would have fallen; but she felt herself suddenly supported in the arms of a
      female, who conducted her to a seat in the dock, and whispered kind and consolatory words in
      her ear.  
  Eliza raised her eyes towards the countenance of this unexpected friend; and, to her
      astonishment, encountered the soft and sympathising glance of Diana Arlington.  
  "Do not be alarmed, Miss Sydney," whispered the Enchantress: "the Earl of Warrington will do
      more for you than you may anticipate. He will use his influence with the Home Secretary, and
      obtain a mitigation of your sentence."  
  "Oh! how kind in him thus to interest himself in my behalf," murmured Eliza; "and I—who am
      so unworthy of his commiseration!"  
  "Do not say that! we have made enquiries, and we have found how you have been deceived. We
      have seen your faithful servant Louisa; and she has told us enough to convince us that you was
      more to be pitied than blamed. One thing I have to communicate which will console you—I have
      taken Louisa into my service!"  
  "A thousand thanks, my dear madam," said Eliza. "The thought of what was to become of her
      has made me very unhappy. This is indeed one subject of comfort. But I saw Louisa yesterday:
      why did she keep me in the dark in this respect?"  
  "We enjoined her to maintain the strictest silence," returned Mrs. Arlington. "We were
      determined to see how you would act up to the very last moment in this distressing business,
      ere we allowed you to know that you had friends who cared for you."  
  "And how have I obtained this generous sympathy?" enquired Eliza, pressing Diana's hand with
      an effusion of gratitude.  
  "The Earl loved your mother, and blames himself for his neglect of her children, whose
      welfare would have been dear to his deceased uncle," said Diana gravely. "And for myself," she
      added, blushing—"anything which interests the Earl, also interests me."  
  "Believe me, I shall never forget this kindness on your part:—neither shall I ever be able
      to repay it," observed Eliza. "I am now going to a protracted incarceration, in a terrible
      prison," she continued mournfully,—"and God only knows whether I may survive it. But until the
      day of my death shall I pray for you and that good nobleman who forgives, pities, and consoles
      me."  
  "He does—he does," said Mrs. Arlington, deeply affected: "but fancy not that your
      confinement will pass without being relieved by the visits of friends. I shall call and see
      you as often as the regulations of the prison will permit; and I again renew the promise which
      the Earl has authorised me to make relative to his intercession with the Secretary of State in
      your favour."  
  Eliza again poured forth her gratitude to Diana, and they then separated. The former was
      conveyed back to Newgate: the latter hastened to the humble hackney-coach which she had
      purposely hired to take her to the Old Bailey.  
  As soon as the case of Stephens, Mac Chizzle, and Eliza Sydney was disposed of, William
      Bolter was placed at the bar to take his trial for the murder of his wife.  
  "The miscreant"—as the newspapers had called him all along—wore a sullen and hardened
      appearance; and pleaded   Not Guilty   in a brutal and ferocious manner. The only feature
      of interest in the case was the examination of his son—his little son—as a witness against
      him. The poor boy seemed to comprehend the fearful position in which his father was placed;
      for he gave his evidence with the utmost reluctance. There was, however, a sufficiency of
      testimony, direct and circumstantial, to induce the jury to find the prisoner guilty without a
      moment's hesitation.  
  The Judge put on the black cap, and proceeded to pass upon the culprit the awful sentence of
      the law. Having expatiated upon the enormity of the prisoner's guilt, and admonished him to
      use the little time that remained to him in this world for the purpose of making his peace
      with heaven, he sentenced William Bolter   to be taken back again to the place from whence
       he came, and thence to a place of execution, where he was to be hanged by the neck until he
       should be dead    
  There was some years ago, amongst ruffians of the very worst description, a custom of
      abusing the Judge, or "blackguarding the Beak," as it was called, when they received the award
      due to their crimes, in the felon's dock. This miserable and vain bravado—an affectation of
      recklessness which even the most hardened could scarcely feel—was revived by Bill Bolter upon
      the present occasion. "Taking a sight" at the Judge, the murderer commenced a string of
      horrible abuse—laden with imprecations and epithets of a most shocking and filthy nature. A
      shudder passed through the audience as if it were one man, at that revolting display on the
      part of a wretch who stood upon the edge of the tomb!  
  The officers of the court speedily interfered to put an end to the sad scene; and the
      convict, after a desperate resistance, was carried back to Newgate, where he was lodged in one
      of the condemned cells.  
  While these important cases were being disposed of in the Old Court, two others, which it is
      necessary to notice, were adjudicated upon in the New Court before the Recorder. The first was
      that of Thomas Armstrong, who was fortunate enough to be acquitted for want of evidence,
      George Montague, a principal witness against him, not appearing;—the other was that of Crankey
      Jem and the Resurrection Man. It is needless to enter into particulars in this matter: suffice
      it to say that the former was convicted of a daring burglary, upon the testimony of the latter
      who turned King's evidence. Crankey Jem was sentenced to transportation for life, he having
      been previously convicted of serious offences; and the Resurrection Man was sent back to
      Newgate to be discharged at the termination of the sessions.  
  The business of the Court was concluded in a few days; and Richard was removed to the
      Giltspur Street Compter. There he was dressed in the prison garb, and forced to submit to a
         régime   peculiarly trying to the constitution of those who have been accustomed to
      tender nurture. The gruel, which constituted his principal aliment, created a nausea upon his
      stomach; the thin and weak soup was far from satisfying the cravings of the appetite; the
      bread was good, but doled out in miserably small quantities; and the meat seemed only offered
      to tantalise or provoke acuteness of hunger.  
  The Resurrection Man was set at liberty.  
  Stephens, Mac Chizzle, and Crankey Jem were removed to the hulks at Woolwich, previous to
      the sailing of a convict-ship for New South Wales.  
  Eliza Sydney remained in Newgate.  
  Bill Bolter, the murderer, also stayed for a short season in the condemned cell of that
      fearful prison.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXIV. THE LESSON INTERRUPTED.  
  THE moment the trial of Richard Markham was concluded, Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr.
      Chichester bade a cold and hasty adieu to Mr. Talbot, and left the court together.  
  They wended their way up the Old Bailey, turned into Newgate Street, and thence proceeded
      down Butcher-hall Lane towards Bartholomew Close; for in that large dreary Square did Mr.
      Chichester now occupy a cheap lodging.  
  This lodging consisted of a couple of small and ill-furnished rooms on the second floor.
      When the two gentlemen arrived there, it was past five o'clock—for the trial had lasted the
      entire day; and a dirty cloth was laid for dinner in the front apartment. Black-handled knives
      and forks, a japanned pepper-box, pewter saltcellar and mustard pot, and common white plates
      with a blue edge, constituted the "service." The dinner itself was equally humble—consisting
      of mutton-chops and potatoes, flanked by a pot of porter.  
  The baronet and the fashionable gentleman took their seats in silence, and partook of the
      meal without much appetite. There was a damp upon their spirits: they were not so utterly
      depraved as to be altogether unmindful of the detestable part they had played towards Markham;
      and their own affairs were moreover in a desperate condition.  
  A slip-shod, dirty, familiar girl cleared away the dinner things; and the gentlemen then
      took to gin-and-water and cigars. For some minutes they smoked in silence; till at length the
      baronet, stamping his foot impatiently upon the floor, exclaimed, "My God! Chichester, is
      nothing to be done?"  
  "I really don't know," answered that individual. "You heard how deucedly I got exposed
      to-day in the witness-box; and after that I should not dare show up at the west-end for weeks
      and months to come—even if the sheriff's officers weren't looking out for me."  
  "Well, something must be done," observed the baronet. "Here am I, playing at hide-and-seek
      as well as you—all my horses sold—my furniture seized—my carriages made away with—my plate
      pawned—and not a guinea—not a guinea left!"  
  "What should you say to a trip into the country?" demanded Chichester, after a pause.
      "London is too hot for both of us—at least for the present; indeed my surprise is that we were
      not arrested on those infernal bills, coming out of the court. But, as I was saying—a trip
      into the country might do more good. To be sure, this is no time for the watering places: we
      might, however, pay a visit to Hastings, Bath, and Cheltenham on a venture."  
  "And what could we do for ourselves there?"  
  "Why—pick up flats, to be sure!"  
  "You know, Chichester, that I am not able to work the cards and dice as you can."  
  "Then you must learn, as I did."  
  "And who will teach me?"  
  "Why—myself, to be sure! Could you have a better master than Arthur Chichester?"  
  "But it would take so long to understand all these manœuvres—I should never have the
      patience."  
  "Oh! nonsense, Harborough. Come—what do you say? Three days' practice, and we will be
      off?"  
  "But the money—the funds to move with?" cried the baronet, impatiently. "I am literally
      reduced to my last guinea."  
  "Oh! as for that," returned Chichester, "I will engage to get a twenty pound note from my
      father to-morrow; and with that supply we can safely start off on our expedition."  
  "Well—if you can rely upon doing this," observed the baronet, "we will put your plan into
      execution. So let us lose no time; but please to give me my first lesson."  
  "That's what I call business," cried Chichester, rising from his seat and drawing the
      curtains, while the baronet lighted the two tallow candles that adorned the wooden
      mantel-piece.  
   of a gambler—packs of cards, dice-boxes, and dice.  
  Having reseated himself, he took up a pair of dice and a box, and said, "Now, my dear
      fellow, be a good boy, and learn your lesson well. You will soon meet with your reward."  
  "I am all attention," observed the baronet.  
  "In the first place I shall show you how to   secure  ," continued Chichester; "and as
      you know the game of   Hazard   well enough, I need say but little more on that head.
      There are two ways of   securing  . The first is to hold one of the dice between the fore
      and middle fingers, or the middle and third fingers, against the side of the box, so that one
      finger must cover the top of the die—in this way, you see."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I understand," said the baronet, attentively watching the proceedings of his companion, who
      by certain clever and adroit manipulations with the dice-box, illustrated his oral
      descriptions.  
  "This system is not so easy as the second, which I shall presently show you," continued
      Chichester; "because the die must be kept cleverly inside the box, so as not to be seen. The
      second way of   securing   is by taking hold of one of the dice by the little finger, and
      keeping it firm against the palm of the hand while you shake the box, so as to be able to drop
      it skilfully upon the table at the proper moment, when it will seem as if it came from the box
      along with the other. This is the way."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I shall soon understand," said the baronet. "Of course by being able to   secure   one
      die, you may make it turn up any number you choose."  
  "When you mean to practise this dodge," continued Chichester, "call five for   a
      main  ; because you can   secure   the four, and there is only the six on the loose
      die that can come up against you. If you have a good stake to get,   secure   a five
      every time; because when the   main   is six to five, or seven to five, or eight to five,
      or nine to five, or ten to five, you   must   win every time, because you can't possibly
      throw out while the five is   secured  ."  
  "But will not the ear tell the   pigeon   that there is only one die rattling in the
      box?" demanded the baronet.  
  "Look at this box," exclaimed Chichester. "It has two rims cut inside, near the bottom: the
      one die shaking against them produces the sound of two dice."  
  "Are there not some peculiarities about these dice?" asked Sir Rupert, pointing to a pair
      which Chichester had placed apart from the rest.  
  "Yes—those are   unequal dice  , and are so well made that no one, except a regular
      sharper, could detect them. They are bigger at one end than the other, and the sixes are
      placed on the smaller squares, because you must play with these dice to win upon high numbers,
      which are on those smaller squares. The dice will in nine cases out of ten fall upon the
      larger squares, and thus show the high numbers uppermost."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And these dice?" enquired the baronet, taking up two others.  
  "Loaded ones," replied Chichester. "These are to throw low; and so the two sides which have
      got four and five on them are loaded."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "How are they loaded?" asked Sir Rupert.  
  "The corner pip of the four side, next to the five side, is bored very neatly to a certain
      depth: the same is done to the corner pip of the five side, adjoining the four side. Thus the
      two holes, so bored, meet each other at right angles. One of the holes is covered over with
      some strong cement: quicksilver is then poured in; and the other hole is covered over with the
      cement. The spots are blackened; and your dice are ready for use. These being intended to
      throw low, you must call a main, and take the odds accordingly."  
  "Well," said the baronet, "I think I can now safely say that I know enough of the elements
      of your grammar to enable me to practise myself. Let us devote half an hour to the working of
      cards."  
  "The ways of managing the cards," said Chichester, taking up a pack, and shuffling them,
      "are numerous. These, for instance, are   Longs and Shorts  . All the cards above the
      eight, are the least thing longer than those below it. I have a machine which was invented on
      purpose to cut them accurately. Nothing under an eight can be cut, you see, with these cards,
      lengthways."  
  "And that pack so carefully wrapped up in the paper?"  
  "Oh! these are my   Concaves   and   Convexes   the pack breadthways a convex card is cut; by cutting it lengthways, a concave
      one is secured."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I have often heard of   the bridge  ," said Sir Rupert; "what does that mean?"  
  "Oh!   the bridge   is simply and easily done," replied Chichester, shuffling the pack
      which he held in his hand. "You see it is nothing but slightly curving a card, and introducing
      it carelessly into the pack. Shuffle the cards as your opponent will, you are sure to be able
      to cut the bridged one."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I could do that without study," observed Sir Rupert Harborough. "Is my initiation now
      complete?"  
  "There are several other schemes with the cards," answered Chichester, "but I think that I
      have taught you enough for this evening. One famous device, however, must not be forgotten.
      You have heard of the way in which Lord de Roos lately attempted to cheat his noble companions
      at the club? The plan practised by him is called   sauter la coupe  , and enables the
      dealer to do what he chooses with one particular card, which of course he has selected for
      this purpose. Now look how it is done; for I can better show practically than explain
      verbally."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Scarcely was this portion of the lesson accomplished, when steps were heard ascending the
      stairs; and immediately afterwards a heavy fist knocked with more violence than courtesy at
      the parlour door.  
  The baronet and Chichester both turned pale.  
  "They can't have found us out here?" murmured the one to the other in a hoarse and tremulous
      tone.  
  "What shall we do?"  
  "We must open—happen what will."  
  Chichester unlocked the door: two ill-looking men entered the room.  
  "Mr. Arthur Chichester?" said one.  
  "He isn't here—we don't know him. My name is Davis—ask the landlady if it is not," cried
      Chichester hurriedly, and in a manner which only served to convince the officer that he was
      right.  
  "Come—come, none of that there gammon," said the bailiff. "I knows you well enough: my
      name's Garnell; and I'll stand the risk of your being Chichester. Here's execution out against
      you for four hundred and forty-seven pounds. I don't suppose that you can pay—so you'd better
      come off at once."  
  "Where to?" demanded Chichester, seeing that it was no use disputing his own identity any
      longer.  
  "Where to!" cried the officer; "why—to Whitecross, to be sure! Where the devil would you go
      to?"  
  "Can I not be allowed to sleep in a sponging-house?"  
  "No—this is an execution, and a large sum, mind. I don't dare do it."  
  "Well, then—here goes for Whitecross Street!" said Chichester; and after exchanging a few
      words in a whisper with the baronet, he left the house with the sheriff's officers.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXV. WHITECROSS-STREET PRISON.  
  A COLD drizzling rain was falling, as Chichester proceeded along the streets leading to the
      debtors' prison. The noise of pattens upon the pavement; the numbers of umbrellas that were
      up; the splashing of horses' feet and carriage-wheels in the kennels; the rush of cabs and the
      shouting of omnibus-cads, were all characteristic of a wet night in a crowded metropolis.  
  Chichester shivered—more through nervousness than actual cold; and he felt an oppressive
      sensation at the bottom of his stomach, as well as at the chest.  
  The officer endeavoured to console him, by observing that "it was lucky he had been taken so
      close to the prison on such a rainy night."  
  The ruined young man envied many a poor wretch whom he passed on his way; for he knew that
      it was far easier to get into a debtors' gaol than to get out of it.  
  At length they arrived at the prison.  
   several alleys to the staircase communicating with the Receiving Ward.  
  The turnkey pulled a wire, which rang a bell on the first floor.  
  "Who rings?" cried a voice at the top of the stairs.  
  "Sheriffs debtor—Arthur Chichester—L. S.," replied the turnkey, in a loud sing-song
      voice.  
  Chichester afterwards learnt that he was mentioned as a sheriff's prisoner, in
      contra-distinction to one arrested by a warrant from the Court of Requests; and that L. S.
      meant   London side  —an intimation that he had been arrested in the City of London, and
      not in the County of Middlesex.  
  Having ascended a flight of stone steps, Chichester was met at the door of the Receiving
      Ward by the steward thereof. This steward was himself a prisoner, but was considered a
      trustworthy person, and had therefore been selected by the governor to preside over that
      department of the prison.  
  The Receiving Ward was a long low room, with windows secured by bars, at each end. There
      were two grates, but only one contained any fire. The place was remarkably clean—the floor,
      the deal tables, and the forms being as white as snow.  
  The following conversation forthwith took place between the new prisoner and the
      steward:—  
  "What is your name?"  
  "Arthur Chichester."  
  "Have you got your bread?"  
  "Yes."  
  "Well—put it in that pigeon-hole. Do you choose to have sheets to-night on your bed?"  
  "Certainly."  
  "Then that will be a shilling the first night, and sixpence every night after, as long as
      you remain here. You can, moreover, sleep in the inner room, and sit up till twelve o'clock.
      Those who can't afford to pay for sheets sleep in a room by themselves, and go to bed at a
      quarter to ten. You see we know how to separate the gentlemen from the riff-raff."  
  "And how long shall I be allowed to stay up in the Receiving Ward?"  
  "That depends. Do you mean to live at my table? I charge sixpence for tea, the same for
      breakfast, a shilling for dinner, and four-pence for supper."  
  "Well—I shall be most happy to live at your table."  
  "In that case, write a note to the governor, to say you are certain to be able to settle
      your affairs in the course of a week; and I will take care he shall have it the very first
      thing to-morrow morning."  
  "But I am sure of not being able to settle in a week."  
  "Do as you like. You won't be allowed to stay up here unless you do."  
  "Oh! in that case I will do so at once. Can you oblige me with a sheet of
      writing-paper?"  
  "Certainly. Here is one. A penny, if you please."  
  Chichester paid for the paper, wrote the letter, and handed it to the Steward.  
  He then cast a glance round the room; and saw three or four tolerably decent-looking persons
      warming themselves at the fire, while fifteen or sixteen wretched-looking men, dressed for the
      most part as labourers, were sitting on the forms round the walls, at a considerable distance
      from the blazing grate.  
  The Steward, perceiving that the new prisoner threw a look of inquiry towards him,
      said,—"Those   gentlemen   at the fire are Sheriff's Debtors, and live at my table: those
         chaps   over there are Court of Requests' Men, and haven't a shilling to bless
      themselves with. So, of course, I can't allow them to associate with the others."  
  "How many prisoners, upon an average, pass through the Receiving Ward in the course of one
      year?"  
  "About three thousand three hundred as near as I can guess. All the Debtors receive each so
      much bread and meat a-week. The prison costs the City close upon nine thousand pounds a
      year."  
  "Nine thousand a-year, spent to lock men up, away from their families!" exclaimed
      Chichester. "That sum would pay the debts of the greater portion of those who are unfortunate
      enough to be brought here."  
  "You may well say   that  ," returned the Steward. "Why, half the prisoners who come
      here are poor working-men, snatched away from their labour, and obliged to know that their
      wives and children will starve during their absence. That man over there, with the little
      bundle tied up in a blue cotton handkerchief, is only arrested for 8d. The costs are three and
      sixpence."  
  "He is actually a prisoner, then, for four and two-pence."  
  "Exactly. The man next to him is arrested for 3d., the balance of a chandler's shop debt;
      his costs are five shillings. But the case of that poor devil who is crying so up in the
      corner, is the worst. It appears that he had an account at a tally-shop, and paid one shilling
      a-week towards its liquidation. He was in full work, and earned eighteen shillings a week; and
      so he regularly gave his wife the money every Saturday night to put away for the tally-man.
      But the woman is fund of tippling, and she spent the money in gin. Well, the tally-man takes
      out a   summons   from the Court of Requests: the wife receives it, and is afraid to tell
      her husband. Next week comes the   Rule  : this the woman also hides, hoping, somehow or
      another, to get together the debt and costs, and settle it unknown to her husband. But no such
      thing: so this morning, as the poor fellow was going home to dinner, he was arrested for four
      shillings debt, and six shillings costs."  
  "This was cruel indeed," observed Chichester, to whom all these details were perfectly
      new.  
  "Yes," continued the Steward; "but that is nothing to the things that I have heard men tell
      up in this room. Loan-Societies, Tally-Shops, and the low pettifogging lawyers, keep this
      place well-filled."  
  It was now a quarter to ten; and the poor wretches who could not afford to pay for sheets,
      were huddled off to bed. Chichester, and the "  gentlemen who boarded at the Steward's
       table  ," remained up, smoking cigars and drinking ale, until twelve.  
  Chichester was then introduced into a large room, containing ten or a dozen beds, whose
      frame-work was made of iron. One miserably thin blanket, a horse-cloth, and a straw mattress
      and pillow, were all provided for each couch, by the Corporation of the City of London!  
  Oh! how generous—how philanthropic—how noble; to tear men away from their homes and give
      them straw, wrapped up in coarse ticking, to sleep upon!  
   Ward; and the enjoyment of this luxury was attended with the following
      disbursements:—Towel. 2d.; Use of Soap, 1d.; Loan of Razor and Lather-box, 1d.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Breakfast, consisting of coffee and dry toast, was then served up.  
  Those who boarded with the steward sate down and commenced a desperate assault upon the
      provisions: and those who fancied an egg or a rasher of bacon with their meal, paid twopence
      extra. The conversation was entirely associated with the prison affairs; it appeared as if
      those men when once they set foot in the prison, discarded all thoughts of the great world
      without, from which they have been snatched away. Even when the morning newspaper came in,
      attention was first directed, by a strange kind of sympathy, to the list of Bankrupts and to
      the Law Notices, the latter of which afforded them the pleasing and interesting intelligence
      of who were that day to appear before the Commissioners of the Insolvent Court.  
   they were classified into Middlesex Sheriffs' Debtors, London Sheriffs' Debtors,
      and City Freemen who were also Sheriffs' Debtors; and London Court of Requests' Debtors, and
      Middlesex Court of Requests' Debtors.  
  Chichester was ordered to remove to the Poultry Ward, on the London side, the governor
      declining to comply with the request contained in his letter.  
  It will be seen from what we have already said, that Whitecross-street prison is essentially
      different from the Bench, descriptions of which have been given in so many different works,
      and the leading features of which are so familiar to a large portion of the community, either
      from hearsay or experience. If a man cannot muster four or five pounds to transfer himself
      from the custody of the Sheriffs to that of the Judges, by a   habeas corpus   writ, he
      must remain in Whitecross-street prison, while the more wealthy debtor enjoys every luxury and
      privilege in the Bench. And yet, we are constantly assured that there is the same law for the
      poor as there is for the rich!  
  The system of imprisonment for debt is in itself impolitic, unwise, and cruel in the
      extreme:—it ruins the honest man, and destroys the little remnant of good feeling existing in
      the heart of the callous one. It establishes the absurd doctrine, that if a man
         cannot   pay his debts while he is allowed the exercise of his talents, his labour,
      and his acquirements, he   can   when shut up in the narrow compass of a prison, where
      his talents, his labours, and his acquirements are useless. How eminently narrow-sighted are
      English legislators! They fear totally to abolish this absurd custom, because they dread that
      credit will suffer. Why—credit is altogether begotten in confidence, and never arises from the
      preconceived intention on the part of him who gives it, to avail himself of this law against
      him who receives it. Larceny and theft are punished by a limited imprisonment, with an
      allowance of food; but debtors, who commit no crime, may linger and languish—and   starve in
       gaol  .  
  The Poultry Ward was a long, dark, low room, with seven or eight barred windows on each
      side, sawdust upon the stone floor, and about a dozen or fourteen small tables arranged, like
      those of a coffee-house, around the walls. The room was full of debtors of all
      appearances—from the shabby-genteel down to the absolutely ragged. Here a prisoner was
      occupied in drawing up his schedule for the Insolvent Debtors' Court;—there an emaciated old
      man was writing a letter, over which he shed bitter and scalding tears;—at another table a
      young farmer's labourer-looking man was breakfasting off bread and cheese and onions, which he
      washed down with porter;—close by was a stout seedy-looking person with grey hair, who did not
      seem to have any breakfast at all;—in this nook a poor pale wretch was reading a newspaper;—in
      that corner another individual was examining a pile of letters;—several were gathered round
      the fire in the scullery or kitchen attached to the Ward, preparing their breakfasts;—and
      others were lounging up and down the room, laughing and talking over the amusements of the
      preceding night up in the sleeping rooms.  
  The steward of the Poultry Ward had just finished his breakfast when the turnkey introduced
      Mr. Chichester.  
  "Well, Mr. Thaynes," said the Steward, quite delighted to see the new prisoner, "I began to
      think we should have had none down this morning. Pray take a seat, sir."  
  This invitation was addressed to Chichester, who sat down accordingly.  
  The Steward, after exchanging a few observations with the turnkey, produced a book from a
      drawer in the table, and, addressing himself in a semi-mysterious tone to Mr. Chichester,
      said—"These are our rules and regulations. Every new member is required to pay an entrance fee
      of one pound and sixpence; and this goes towards the fund for paying the officers and servants
      of the ward, providing coals, and administering generally to the comforts of the place."  
  "I am quite satisfied with the justice of the charge," said Chichester; and he paid it
      accordingly.  
  "I suppose you will live at my table?" enquired the Steward. "Same charges as upstairs in
      the Receiving Ward."  
  "Oh! certainly," answered Chichester. "Have you any body here of any consequence at
      all?"  
  "Not particularly at this moment. Lord William Priggins stayed a couple of days with us, and
      went over to the Bench yesterday morning."  
  "Who is that gentleman walking up and down the narrow court outside?" enquired Chichester,
      glancing towards the window, through which might be seen a tall slim young man, with black
      moustachios, a long faded cotton dressing gown, a dingy velvet skull cap, and pantaloons
      hanging low and loose, because the owner had forgotten his braces.  
  "Oh! that is Count Pichantoss—a celebrated Russian nobleman, who was cleaned out some weeks
      since at a West-end Hell, and got put into prison for his hotel bill."  
  "And who is that respectable old gentleman with the bald head, and dressed in black?"  
  "That is a clergyman, the Rev. Henry Sharpere: he is an excellent preacher, they say—and the
      best securer of a die that I ever saw in my life."  
  "And that very sickly pale-faced youth, who seems to be scarcely twenty?"  
  "He is only twenty-one and a month. He was arrested the day after he came of age for blank
      acceptances which he had given, during his minority, to the tune of three thousand pounds, and
      for which he never received more than three hundred."  
  "And that quiet-looking old gentleman, at the table opposite?"  
   of conveyance and the abstract of the title; but my gentleman never meant
      paying—so at last, the Chancery Court, getting tired of his excuses, and finding that he would
      not disgorge the amount he had already received for rents, nor yet come down with a shilling
      towards the purchase-money, clapt him into limbo under some form or another;—and so here he
      is."  
  In this manner did the steward of the Poultry Ward render the new prisoner familiar with the
      leading characters of that department of the prison. In addition to the few instances of
      flagrant dishonesty, or culpable extravagance which were pointed out to Chichester,
      information was given him of many—very many cases of pure and unadulterated misfortune. The
      churchyard has known no sorrow—the death-chamber has known no anguish equal to that acute and
      poignant suffering which many an inmate endures within the walls of that prison. If he be an
      affectionate father, he thinks of his absent little ones, and he feels shocked at the cold
      cruelty of the rules which only permit children to visit their incarcerated sire twice
      a-week—on Wednesday and Sunday—and then only for three hours each time. If he be a kind
      husband, and possess a tender and a loving wife, he dreads the fatal hour of five of the
      evening, which is the signal for all strangers and visitors to leave these walls. Misery—lank,
      lean, palpable misery—is the characteristic of Whitecross Street prison.  
  The legislature says—"We only allow men to be locked up in order to prevent them from
      running away without paying the debts they owe."—Then why treat them as felons? Why impose
      upon them rules and regulations, the severity of which is as galling to their souls as the
      iron chains of Newgate are to the felons' flesh? Why break their spirits and crush their good
      and generous feelings, by compelling them all to herd together—the high and the low—the polite
      and the vulgar—the temperate and the drunkard—the cleanly and the filthy—the religious and the
      profane—the sedate and the ribald?  
  O excellent legislators! do you believe that a man ever went out of the debtor's gaol more
      moral and better disposed than he was when he went in? The answer to this question will, in
      one word, teach you the efficacy of Imprisonment for Debt.  
  Chichester walked out into a large stone-paved court attached to his ward, and bearing the
      attractive but somewhat illusive name of the "Park." At twelve o'clock the beer men from the
      public-houses in Whitecross Street were allowed admittance; and then commenced the debauchery
      of the day. The seats round the "Park" were soon crowded with prisoners and visitors,
      drinking, smoking, laughing, and swearing.  
  Many poor wretches, who could not boast of much strength of mind, but who were in reality
      well disposed, took to this occupation to   kill care  .  
  And who will blame them? Not you, proud peer, who bury your vexations in crystal goblets
      sparkling with the choicest juice of Epernay's grape—nor you, fine gentleman, who seek in
      gaming at your club a relief from the anxieties and petty troubles which now and then
      interrupt the otherwise even tenure of your way!  
  In the course of the day Mr. Chichester wrote a very penitent letter to his father, the
      pawnbroker, lamenting past follies, and promising future good conduct. The postscript
      contained an intimation that prison was bad enough when one possessed plenty of money; but
      that it was ten thousand times worse when associated with empty pockets.  
  This precious epistle succeeded in inducing the "old gentleman," as Chichester denominated
      his father, to loosen his purse strings, and remit a few pounds to supply immediate wants.  
  Chichester was thus enabled to live at the Steward's table, and smoke his cigars and drink
      his ale to his heart's content. In a small community like that of a ward in Whitecross Street,
      as well as in the great world without, he who has the most money is the most "looked up
      to"—which is a phrase perfectly understood, and almost synonymous with "respected;" and thus
      Mr. Chichester very speedily became the "star" of that department of the prison to which he
      had been assigned.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXVI. THE EXECUTION.  
  FROM the moment that Bill Bolter had been removed to the condemned cell, after his trial at
      the Old Bailey for the murder of his wife, he preserved a sullen and moody silence.  
  Two turnkeys sat up with him constantly, according to the rules of the prison; but he never
      made the slightest advances towards entering into conversation with them. The Chaplain was
      frequent in his attendance upon the convict; but no regard was paid to the religious
      consolations and exhortations of the reverend gentleman.  
  The murderer ate his meals heartily, and enjoyed sound physical health: he was hale and
      strong, and might, in the common course of nature, have lived until a good old age.  
  By day he sate, with folded arms, meditating upon his condition. He scarcely repented of the
      numerous evil deeds of which he had been guilty: but he trembled at the idea of a future
      state!  
   plainly—palpably. They had no heads—no limbs; and yet they were something more
      than shapeless trunks,—all naked and flesh-coloured, and unconsumed and indestructible amidst
      that burning lake, which had no end. In a few moments this dread scene changed, and all was
      again dark. The murderer fancied that he was now groping about in convulsive agonies upon the
      bank of a river, the stream of which was tepid and thick like blood. The bank was slimy and
      moist, and overgrown with huge osiers and dark weeds, amidst which loathsome reptiles and
      enormous alligators were crowded together. And it was in this frightful place that the
      murderer was now spiritually groping his way, in total and coal-black darkness. At length he
      slipped down the slimy bank—and his feet touched the river, which he now knew to be of blood.
      He grasped convulsively at the osiers to save himself from falling into that horrible stream:
      a huge serpent sprung from the thicket, and coiled itself about his arms and neck;—and at the
      same moment an enormous alligator rose from the river of blood, and seized him in the middle
      between its tremendous jaws. He uttered a fearful cry—and awoke.  
  This dream made a deep impression upon him. He believed that he had experienced a foretaste
      of Hell—of that hell, with all its horrors, in which he would be doomed for ever and
      ever—without hope, without end.  
  And yet, by a strange idiosyncrasy of conduct, he did not court the consolation of the
      clergyman: he breathed no prayer, gave no outward and visible sign of repentance: but
      continued in the same sullen state of reserve before noticed.  
  Still, after that dream, he dreaded to seek his bed at night. He was afraid of sleep; for
      when he closed his eyes in slumber, visions of hell, varied in a thousand horrible ways,
      presented themselves to his mind.  
  He never thought of his children: and once when the clergyman asked him if he would like to
      see them, he shook his head impatiently.  
  Death! he shuddered at the idea—and yet he never sought to escape from its presence by
      conversation or books. He sate moodily brooding upon death and what would probably occur
      hereafter, until he conjured up to his imagination all the phantasmagorical displays of
      demons, spectres, and posthumous horrors ever conceived by human mind.  
  On another occasion—the Friday before the Monday on which he was executed—he dreamt of
      heaven. He thought that the moment the drop had fallen from beneath his feet, a brilliant
      light, such as he had never seen on earth, shone all around him:—the entire atmosphere was
      illuminated as with gold-dust in the rays of a powerful sun. And the sun and moon and stars
      all appeared of amazing size—immense orbs of lustrous and shining metal. He fancied that he
      winged his way upwards with a slow and steady motion, a genial warmth prevailing all around,
      and sweet odours delighting his senses. In this manner he soared on high—until at length he
      passed sun, moon, and stars, and beheld them all shining far, far beneath his feet. Presently
      the sounds of the most ravishing sacred music, accompanied by choral voices hymning to the
      praise of the Highest, fell upon his ear. His soul was enchanted by these notes of promise, of
      hope, and of love; and, raising his eyes, he beheld the shining palaces of heaven towering
      above vast and awe-inspiring piles of clouds. He reached a luminous avenue amidst these
      clouds, which led to the gates of paradise. He was about to enter upon that glorious and
      radiant path, when a sudden change came over the entire spirit of his dream; and in a moment
      he found himself dashing precipitately downwards, amidst darkness increasing in intensity, but
      through which the sun, moon, and planets might be seen, at immense distances, of a lurid and
      ominous red. Down—down he continued falling, until he was pitched with violence upon the moist
      and slimy bank of that river of tepid blood, whose margin was crowded with hideous reptiles,
      and whose depths swarmed with wide-mouthed alligators.  
  Thus passed the murderer's time—dread meditations by day, and appalling dreams by night.  
  Once he thought of committing suicide, and thus avoiding the ignominy of the scaffold. He
      had no shame; but he dreaded hanging on account of the pain—whereof he had experienced the
      dread sensations in his dreams. Besides, death is not quite so terrible when inflicted by
      one's own hand, as it is when dealt by another. He was, however, closely watched; and the only
      way in which he could have killed himself was by dashing the back of his head violently
      against the stone-wall. Then he reflected that he might not do this effectually;—and so he
      abandoned the idea of self-destruction.  
  On the last Sunday of his life he attended the Chapel. A condemned sermon was preached
      according to custom. The sacred fane was filled with elegantly dressed ladies—the wives,
      daughters, and friends of the City authorities. The Clergyman enjoined the prisoner to
      repentance, and concluded by assuring him   that it was not even then too late to
       acknowledge his errors and save his soul. God would still forgive him  !  
  If God could thus forgive him,—why could not Man? Oh! wherefore did that preacher confine
      his observations to the mercy of the Almighty? why did he not address a terrible lecture to
      blood-thirsty and avenging mortals? Of what use was the death of that sinner? Surely there is
      no moral example in a public execution? "There is," says the Legislature. We will see
      presently.  
  Oh! why could not the life of that man—stained with crime and red with blood though it
      were—have been spared, and he himself allowed to live to see the horror of his ways, and learn
      to admire virtue? He might have been locked up for the remainder of his existence: bars and
      bolts in English gaols are very strong; there was enough air for him to be allowed to breathe
      it; and there was enough bread to have spared him a morsel at the expense of the state!  
  We cannot give life: we have no right to take it away.  
  On the Sunday afternoon, the murderer's children were taken to see him in the condemned
      cell. He had not asked for them: but the authorities considered it proper that   they  
      should take leave of   him  .  
  The poor little innocents were dressed in the workhouse garb. The boy understood that his
      father was to be hanged on the following morning; and his grief was heart-rending. The little
      girl could not understand why her parent was in that gloomy place, nor what horrible fate
      awaited him:—but she had an undefined and vague sense of peril and misfortune; and she cried
      also.  
  The murderer kissed them, and told them to be good children;—but he only thus conducted
      himself because he was   ashamed   of the Ordinary, the Governor, the Sheriffs, and the ladies who were admitted to
      have a glimpse of him in his dungeon.  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  The morning of the second Monday after the Sessions dawned.  
  This was the one fixed by the Sheriffs for the execution of William Bolter, the
      murderer.  
  At four o'clock on that fatal morning the huge black stage containing the drop, was wheeled
      out of a shed in the Press Yard, and stationed opposite the debtors' door of Newgate. A
      carpenter and his assistant then hastily fitted up the two perpendicular spars, and the one
      horizontal beam, which formed the gibbet.  
  There were already several hundreds of persons collected to witness these preliminary
      arrangements; and from that hour until eight o'clock multitudes continued pouring from every
      direction towards that spot—the focus of an all-absorbing interest.  
  Man—that social, domestic, and intelligent animal—will leave his child crying in the cradle,
      his wife tossing upon a bed of pain and sickness, and his blind old parents to grope their way
      about in the dark, in order to be present at an exhibition of a fellow creature's disgrace,
      agony, or death. And the law encourages this morbid taste in all countries termed
      civilised,—whether it be opposite the debtors' door of Newgate, or around the guillotine
      erected at the Barriere Saint Jacques of Paris,—whether it be in the midst of ranks of
      soldiers, drawn up to witness the abominable infliction of the lash in the barracks of Charing
      Cross, or the buttons cut off a deserter's coat in the Place Vendome,—whether it be to see a
      malefactor broken on the wheel in the dominions of the tyrant who is called "Europe's
      Protestant Sovereign," or to behold the military execution of a great general at
      Madrid,—whether it be to hear an English Judge in the nineteenth century, unblushingly condemn
      a man to be hanged, drawn, and quartered, and his dissected corpse disposed of according to
      the will of our Sovereign Lady the Queen; or to witness some miserable peasant expire beneath
      the knout in the territories of the Czar.  
  But the Law is vindictive, cowardly, mean, and ignorant. It is   vindictive   because
      its punishments are more severe than the offences, and because its officers descend to any
      dirtiness in order to obtain a conviction. It is   cowardly  , because it cuts off from
      the world, with a rope or an axe, those men whose dispositions it fears to undertake to curb.
      It is   mean  , because it is all in favour of the wealthy, and reserves its thunders for
      the poor and obscure who have no powerful interest to protect them; and because itself
      originates nearly half the crimes which it punishes. And it is   ignorant  , because it
      erects the gibbet where it should rear the cross,—because it makes no allowance for the cool
      calculating individual who commits a crime, but takes into its consideration the case of the
      passionate man who assassinates his neighbour in a momentary and uncontrollable burst of
      rage,—thus forgetting that the former is the more likely one to be led by reflection to
      virtue, and that the latter is a demon subject to impulses which he can never subdue.  
  From an early hour a glittering light was seen through the small grated window above the
      debtors' door; for the room to which that door belongs, is now the kitchen.  
  There was something sinister and ominous in that oscillating glare, breaking through the
      mists of the cold December morning, and playing upon the black spars of the gibbet which stood
      high above the already dense but still increasing multitudes.  
  Towards eight o'clock the crowd had congregated to such an extent, that it moved and
      undulated like the stormy ocean. And, oh! what characters were collected around that gibbet.
      Every hideous den, every revolting hole—every abode of vice, squalor, and low debauchery, had
      vomited forth their horrible population. Women, with young children in their arms,—pickpockets
      of all ages,—swell-mobsmen,—prostitutes, thieves, and villains of all degrees and
      descriptions, were gathered there on that fatal morning.  
  And amidst that multitude prevailed mirth, and laughter, and gaiety. Ribald language,
      obscene jokes, and filthy expressions, were heard around, even to the very foot of the
      gallows; and even at that early hour intoxication was depicted upon the countenances of
      several whom the Law had invited thither to derive an example from the tragedy about to be
      enacted!  
  Example, indeed! Listen to those shouts of laughter: they emanate from a group collected
      round a pickpocket only twelve years old, who is giving an account of how he robbed an elderly
      lady on the preceding evening. But, ah! what are those moans, accompanied with horrible oaths
      and imprecations? Two women fighting: they are tearing each other to pieces—and their husbands
      are backing them. In another direction, a simple-looking countryman suddenly discovers that
      his handkerchief and purse are gone. In a moment his hat is knocked over his eyes; and he
      himself is cuffed, and kicked, and pushed about in a most brutal manner.  
  Near the scaffold the following conversation takes place:—  
  "I wonder what the man who is going to be hanged is doing at this moment."  
  "It is now half-past seven. He is about now receiving the sacrament."  
  "Well—if I was he, I'd send the old parson to the devil, and pitch into the sheriffs."  
  "Yes—so would I. For my part, I should like to live such a life as Jack Sheppard or Dick
      Turpin did, even if I did get hanged at last."  
  "There is something noble and exciting in the existence of a highwayman: and then—at
      last—what admiration on the part of the crowd—what applause when he appears upon the
      drop!"  
  "Yes. If this fellow Bolter had contented himself with being a burglar, or had only murdered
      those who resisted him, I should have cheered him heartily;—but to kill his wife—there's
      something cowardly in that; and so I shall hiss him."  
  "And so shall I."  
  "A quarter to eight! The poor devil's minutes are pretty well numbered."  
  "I wonder what he is about now."  
  "The pinioning will begin directly, I dare say."  
  "That must be the worst part."  
  "Oh! no—not a bit of it. You may depend upon it that he is not half so miserable as we are
      inclined to think him. A man makes up his mind to die as well as to anything else. But what
      the devil noise is that?"  
  "Oh! only some fool of a fellow singing a patter song about a man hanging, and imitating all
      the convulsions of the poor wretch. My eyes! how the people do laugh!"  
  "Five minutes to eight! They won't be long now."  
   church began to toll the funeral knell—that same bell whose ominous sound had
      fallen upon the ears of the wretched murderer, when he lay concealed in the vault of the Old
      House.  
  The laughing—the joking—the singing—and the fighting now suddenly subsided; and every eye
      was turned towards the scaffold. The most breathless curiosity prevailed.  
  Suddenly the entrance of the debtor's door was darkened by a human form: the executioner
      hastily ascended the steps, and appeared upon the scaffold.  
  He was followed by the Ordinary in his black gown, walking with slow and measured pace
      along, and reading the funeral service—while the bell of Saint Sepulchre continued its deep,
      solemn, and foreboding death-note.  
  The criminal came next.  
  His elbows were bound to his sides, and his wrists fastened together, with thin cord. He had
      on a decent suit of clothes, supplied by the generosity of Tom the Cracksman; and on his head
      was a white night-cap.  
  The moment he appeared upon the scaffold, a tremendous shout arose from the thousands and
      thousands of spectators assembled to witness his punishment.  
  He cast a hurried and anxious glance around him.  
  The large open space opposite the northern wing of Newgate seemed literally paved with human
      faces, which were continued down the Old Bailey and Giltspur Street, as far as he could see.
      The houses facing the prison were crammed with life—roof and window.  
  It seemed as if he were posted upon a rock in the midst of an ocean of people.  
  Ten thousand pairs of eyes were concentrated in him. All was animation and interest, as if
      some grand national spectacle were about to take place.  
  "Hats off!" was the universal cry: the multitudes were determined to lose nothing! The
      cheapness of an amusement augments the pleasure derived from it. We wonder that the government
      has never attempted to realise funds by charging a penny a-piece for admission to behold the
      executions at Newgate. In such a country as England, where even religion is made a compulsory
      matter of taxation, the dues collected at executions would form a fund calculated to thrive
      bravely.  
  While the executioner was occupied in fixing the halter round the convict's neck, the
      Ordinary commenced that portion of the Burial Service, which begins thus:—  
  "  Man that is born of a woman hath but a short time to live, and is full of misery. He
       cometh up, and is cut down like a flower: he fleeth as it were a shadow, and never continueth
       in one stay.  "  
  The executioner having attached the rope, and drawn the nightcap over the criminal's face,
      disappeared from the scaffold, and went beneath the platform to draw the bolt that sustained
      the drop.  
  "  In the midst of life we are in death; of whom may we seek for succour, but of thee, O
       Lord, who  —"  
  Here the drop fell.  
  A dreadful convulsion appeared to pass through the murderer's frame; and for nearly a minute
      his hands moved nervously up and down. Perhaps during those fifty seconds, the horrors of his
      dream were realised,   and he felt the blood rushing with the fury of a torrent and with a
       heat of molten lead up into his brain; perhaps his eyes shot sparks of fire; and in his ears
       was a loud droning sound, like the moan of the ocean on a winter's night!    
  But the convulsive movement of the hands soon ceased, and the murderer hung a lifeless
      corpse.  
  The crowd retained its post till nine o'clock, when the body was cut down: then did that
      vast assemblage of persons, of both sexes and all ages, begin to disperse.  
  The public-houses in the Old Bailey and the immediate neighbourhood drove a roaring trade
      throughout that day.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXVII. THE LAPSE OF TWO YEARS.  
  SHAKSPEARE said, "All the world is a   stage  :" we say, "All the world is an
         omnibus  ."  
  The old and young—the virtuous and wicked—the rich and the poor, are invariably thrown and
      mixed up together; and yet their interests are always separate. Few stretch out a hand to help
      a ragged or a decrepit man into the vehicle; and the well-dressed draw back and avert their
      heads as the impoverished wretch forces his way with difficulty past them up to the vacant
      seat in the farthest corner. The moment a well-dressed individual mounts the steps of the
      omnibus, every hand is thrust out to help him in, and the most convenient seat is
      instantaneously accorded to him. And then the World's omnibus hurries along, stopping
      occasionally at the gates of a church-yard to put down one of its passengers, and calling at
      some palace or some cottage indiscriminately to fill up the vacant seat.  
  Away—away thunders the World's omnibus again, crushing the fairest flowers of the earth in
      its progress, and frequently choosing rough, dreary, and unfrequented roads in preference to
      paths inviting, even, and pleasant. Sometimes, by the caprice of the passengers, or by the
      despotic commands of the masters of the World's omnibus, the beggar and the rich man change
      garments and places; and the former then becomes the object of deference and respect, while
      the latter is treated with contempt and scorn. In the World's omnibus   might   makes
         right  ;—but   cunning   frequently secures a more soft and comfortable seat than
      either.  
  If a dispute ensues, and the question at issue is referred to the conductor for arbitration,
      he glances at the personal appearance of the complainant and defendant, and decides in favour
      of him who wears the better coat. When stones or other impediments obstruct the way of the
      World's omnibus, the poor and the ragged passengers are commanded to alight and clear them
      away; and yet, when the vehicle stops for dinner at the inn by the way side, the well-dressed
      and the affluent appropriate to themselves the luxuries, while those who cleared away the
      stones and who grease the wheels, get only a sorry crust—and sometimes nothing at all.  
   in their dotage. And few—very few of those drivers know how to hold the
      reins;—and thus is it that the World's omnibus is frequently hurried at a thundering rate over
      broken ground, even unto the very verge of some precipice, down which it would be inevitably
      dashed, did not some bold intrepid passenger emerge from his obscurity in the corner, rush
      upon the box, hurl the incompetent driver from his seat, and assume the reins in his stead.
      But mark the strange opinions of those who journey in the World's omnibus! The passengers,
      instead of being grateful to him who has thus rescued them from ruin, pronounce him the
      usurper of a seat to which he has no hereditary claim, and never rest till they have succeeded
      in displacing him, and restoring the incompetent driver to his functions.  
  So goes the World's omnibus! None of the passengers are ever contented with their seats,
      even though they may have originally chosen those seats for themselves. This circumstance
      leads to a thousand quarrels and mean artifices; and constant shiftings of positions take
      place. One passenger envies the seat of another; and, when he has succeeded in working his way
      into it, he finds to his surprise that it is not so agreeable as he imagines, and he either
      wishes to get back to his old one or to shove himself into another. The passengers in the
      World's omnibus are divided into different sects and parties, each party professing certain
      opinions for the authority of which they have no better plea than "the wisdom of their
      forefathers." Thus one party hates and abhors another; and each confidently imagines itself to
      be in the right, and all other parties to be in the wrong. And for those differences of
      opinion the most sanguinary broils ensue; and friendship, honour, virtue, and integrity are
      all forgotten in the vindictive contention.  
  But the World's omnibus rolls along all the same; and the Driver and Conductor laugh at the
      contests amongst the passengers, which they themselves have probably encouraged, and which
      somehow or another always turn to their individual benefit in the long run.  
  So goes the World's omnibus;—so it has always hurried onwards;—and in like manner will it
      ever go!  
  Oh! say not that Time has a leaden wing while it accompanies the World's omnibus on its
      way!  
  Two years elapsed from the date of the Old Bailey trials described in preceding
      chapters.  
  It was now the beginning of December, 1837.  
  The morning was dry, fine, and bright: the ground was as hard as asphalte; and the air was
      pure, cold, and frosty.  
  From an early hour a stout, elderly man—well wrapped up in a large great coat, and with a
      worsted "comforter" coming up to his very nose, which was of a purple colour with the cold—was
      seen walking up and down the front of the Giltspur Street Compter, apparently dividing his
      attention between the prison entrance and the clock of Saint Sepulchre's church.  
  At a quarter to ten o'clock, on that same morning, a private carriage, without armorial
      bearings upon the panels, and attended by two domestics, whose splendid liveries were
      concealed beneath drab great-coats, drove up to the door of the house inhabited by the
      Governor of Newgate. Inside that carriage was seated a lady—wrapped up in the most costly
      furs, and with a countenance whose beauty was enhanced by the smile of pleasure and
      satisfaction which illuminated it.  
  Precisely as the clock of Saint Sepulchre's church struck ten, the doors of the Compter and
      Newgate opened simultaneously, and with a similar object.  
  From the Compter issued Richard Markham:—the portal of Newgate gave freedom to Eliza
      Sydney.  
  They were both restored to liberty upon the same day—the terms of their imprisonment dating
      from the commencement of the sessions during which they were tried.  
  The moment Richard set foot in the street, he was caught in the arms of the faithful
      Whittingham, who welcomed him with a kind of paternal affection, and whimpered over him like a
      child.  
  Eliza Sydney entered the carriage awaiting her at the door of Newgate, and was clasped to
      the bosom of Mrs. Arlington. The vehicle immediately drove rapidly away in a north-easterly
      direction.  
  "Mr. Monroe is waiting for you at your own house at Holloway," said Whittingham to his young
      master, when the first ebullition of joy was over. "He has been ailing lately—and he thought
      that this happy and fortitudinous event would be too much for his nerves."  
  "Let us make haste home, my excellent friend," observed Markham. "I am dying to behold once
      more the haunts of my childhood."  
  Whittingham summoned a cab; and he and his young master were soon rolling along the road
      which led to   home  .  
  Two years' imprisonment had produced a great effect upon Richard Markham. The intellectual
      cast and faultless beauty of his countenance still remained; but the joyous expression,
      natural to youth, had fled for ever; and in its place was a settled melancholy which
      proclaimed an early and intimate acquaintance with misfortune. His spirit was broken; but his
      principles were not undermined:—his heart was lacerated to its very core,—but his integrity
      remained intact. Even though the gate of his prison had closed behind him, he could not shake
      off the idea that his very countenance proclaimed him to be a   Freed Convict  .  
  At length the cab reached Markham Place.  
  Richard glanced, with a momentary gleam of satisfaction upon his pale countenance, towards
      the hill on which stood the two trees—the rallying point for the brothers who had separated,
      more than six years back, beneath their foliage. Tears started to his eyes; and the ray of
      sunshine upon his brow gave place to a cloud of deep and sombre melancholy. He thought of what
      he was when he bade adieu to his brother at that period, and what he was at the present
      moment.   Then   all was blooming and encouraging in his path; and   now   he felt
      as if the mark of Cain were upon him!  
  He alighted from the vehicle, and entered the library, where Mr. Monroe awaited him. He and
      his guardian were at length alone together.  
  But how altered was Monroe since Richard had last seen him! His form was bowed down, his
      countenance was haggard, his eyes were sunken, and his brow was covered with wrinkles. He
      glanced furtively and anxiously around him the instant the young man entered the room; and,
      instead of hastening forward to welcome him, he sank upon a chair, covering his face with his
      hands. The tears trickled through his fingers; and his breast was convulsed with deep
      sobs.  
  "In the name of heaven, what ails you, sir?" demanded Richard.  
   a word, through the bitterness of his grief;—"and this much-dreaded day has at
      length arrived!"  
  "Much-dreaded day," repeated Markham, in unfeigned astonishment. "I should have thought,
      sir," he added coldly, "that   you  , who professed yourself so convinced of my
      innocence, would have received me with a smile of welcome!"  
  "My dear—dear boy," gasped the old man, "God knows I am rejoiced to hail your freedom; and
      that same Almighty power can also attest to my sincere conviction of your innocence. Believe
      me, I would go through fire and water to serve you,—I would lay down my life, miserable and
      valueless as it is, to benefit you;—but, oh! I cannot—cannot support your presence!"  
  And the old gentleman seemed absolutely convulsed with agony as he spoke.  
  "I presume," said Richard, leaning over him, so as to be enabled to whisper in his ear,
      although there was none else at hand to listen,—"I presume that you scorn the man who has been
      convicted of felony? It is natural, sir—it is natural; but such a demonstration of aversion is
      not the less calculated to wound one who never injured you."  
  "No—no, Richard; you never injured me; and that makes me feel the more acutely now. But—hear
      me. I take God to witness that I love you as my own son, and that I am above such unnatural
      conduct as that which you would impute to me."  
  "My God!" cried Markham, impatiently, "what does all this mean? Are you ill? Has anything
      unpleasant occurred? If so, we will postpone all discussion upon my affairs until a period
      more agreeable to yourself."  
  As Markham uttered these words, he gently disengaged the old man's hands from his
      countenance, and pressed them in his own. He was then for the first time struck by the altered
      and care-worn features of his guardian; and, without thinking of the effect his words might
      produce, he exclaimed, "My dear sir, you have evidently been very—very ill!"  
  "Ill!" cried the old man, bitterly. "When the mind suffers, the body is sympathetically
      affected; and this has been my case! If you have suffered much, Richard, during the last two
      years—so have I; and we have both only the same consolation—our innocence!"  
  "You speak in enigmas," ejaculated Markham. "What can you have to do with innocence or
      guilt—you who never wronged a human being?"  
  So strange became the expression of the old man's countenance, as Richard uttered these
      words, that the young man was perfectly astonished, and almost horrified; and undefined alarms
      floated through his brain. He was in a painful state of suspense; and yet he was afraid to ask
      a question.  
  "Richard!" suddenly exclaimed the old man, now looking our hero fixedly and fearlessly in
      the face, "I have a terrible communication to make to you."  
  "A terrible communication!" repeated Markham; "is it in respect to my brother? If so, do not
      keep me in suspense—let me know the worst at once—I can bear anything but suspense!"  
  "I have never heard   from   nor   of   your brother," answered Mr. Monroe; "and
      cannot say whether he be dead or living."  
  "Thank God, you have nothing terrible to communicate relative to   him  ," exclaimed
      Markham; for he always had, and still entertained a presentiment that the appointment on the
      hill, beneath the two trees, would be punctually kept;—and this hope had cheered him during
      his horrible imprisonment.  
  "But I will not keep you in suspense, Richard," said the old man; "it is better for me to
      unburthen my mind at once. You are ruined!"  
  "Ruined!" said Markham, starting as that dread word fell upon his ears; for the word
         ruin   does not express one evil, like other words, such as sickness, poverty,
      imprisonment; but it comprises and expresses an awful catalogue of all the miseries which can
      be supposed to afflict humanity. "Ruined!" he cried;—then catching at a straw, he added, "Aye!
      ruined in reputation, doubtless; but rich in the possessions which this world principally
      esteems. My property was all vested in you by my deceased father—I was not of age when I was
      condemned—and consequently the law could not touch my fortune when it filched from me my good
      name!"  
  "Ruined—ruined in property and all!" returned Mr. Monroe, solemnly. "Unfortunate
      speculations on   my   part, but in   your   interest, have consumed the vast
      property entrusted to me by your father!"  
  Markham fell into an arm chair; and for a moment he thought that every fibre in his heart
      would break. A terrible load oppressed his chest and his brain;—he was the victim of deep
      despair. As one looks forth into the darkness of midnight, and sees it dense and motionless,
      so did he now survey his own prospects. The single consolation which, besides the hope of
      again meeting his brother,—the real, the present, the tangible consolation, as it might be
      called, which would have enabled him to forget a portion of his sufferings and his
      wrongs,—this was now gone; and, a beggar upon the face of the earth, he found that he had not
      even the advantage of a good name to help him onwards in his career. Hope was quenched within
      him!  
  A long pause ensued.  
  At its expiration Markham suddenly rose from the arm-chair, approached his guardian, and
      said in a low and hollow voice. "Tell me how all this has happened; let me know the
      circumstances which led to this calamity."  
  "They are brief," said Monroe, "and will convince you that I am more to be pitied than
      blamed. Long previous to your unfortunate trial I commenced a series of speculations with my
      own property, all of which turned out unhappily. The year 1832 was a fatal one to many
      old-established houses; and mine was menaced with absolute ruin. In an evil hour I listened to
      the advice of a Mr. Allen, a merchant who had been reduced by great losses in America trading;
      and by his counsel, I employed a small portion of   your   individual to whom I lent an enormous sum of money—for I   did   advance
      the sum required by that person; and I drew largely upon your fortune to procure it! Oh!
      Richard—had this speculation succeeded, I should have been a wealthy man once more, and your
      property would have been more than doubled. But, alas! this individual to whom I advanced that
      immense amount, and whose securities I had fancied unexceptionable, defrauded me in the most
      barefaced manner! And yet the law could not touch him, for he had contrived to associate
      Allen's name with his own as a partner in the enterprise. Rendered desperate by this appalling
      loss, I embarked in the most extravagant speculations with the remainder of your money. The
      infatuation of the gambler seized upon me: and I never stopped until the result was ruin—total
      ruin to me, and comparative ruin to you!"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Comparative ruin—only   comparative   ruin!" ejaculated Markham, his countenance
      suddenly brightening up at these words: "is there any thing left from the wrecks of my
      property—is there any thing available still remaining? Speak;—and if you answer me in the
      affirmative—if you announce the existence of never so small a pittance, I will yet forgive you
      all!"  
  "This house and the small estate attached to it are left," answered the old man, "and
      totally unincumbered. I neither could nor would touch your paternal possessions."  
  Markham felt indescribable relief from this statement; and he wrung his guardian's hand with
      the same gratitude which he would have shown had he that day received his inheritance
      entire.  
  —I can daily ascend that hill where the memorials of fraternal affection
      stand;—and I can there hope for the return of my brother! My dear sir, what has been done
      cannot be recalled: reproaches, even were I inclined to offer any, would be useless; and
      regrets would be equally unavailing. This estate will produce me a small income—but enough for
      my wants. Two hundred pounds a-year are certainly a beggar's pittance, when compared with the
      inheritance which my father left me;—but I am still grateful that even the means of
      subsistence are left. And you, Mr. Monroe—upon what are you subsisting?"  
  "I still attend to the wrecks of my affairs," replied the old man; "and then I have my
      daughter Ellen—who earns a little with her needle——"  
  "You shall come and take up your abode with me—you and your daughter—and share my income,"
      interrupted the generous young man, who saw not before him an individual that had deprived him
      of a large fortune, but an old—old man, bent down by the weight of numerous and deep
      afflictions.  
  Monroe wept at this noble conduct on the part of his ward, and strenuously refused to accept
      the proffered kindness and hospitality. Markham urged, begged, and entreated;—but the old man
      would not accede to his wish.  
  "You have not told me what became of your friend Mr. Allen," said Richard, after a
      pause.  
  "He was an honourable and an upright man," was the reply; "and the ruin which he had been
      the means of entailing, though innocently, upon me, broke his heart, he died three months
      ago."  
  "And what became of the infamous cheat whose schemes have thus killed one person and ruined
      two others?"  
  "I know not," answered Mr. Monroe. "I never saw him myself; nor did he even know that there
      was such a person as myself connected with the loan which he received. Certain commercial
      reasons—too long to be explained now—made me put forward Allen as the person who advanced the
      money, and conducted the entire business as a principal, and not as an agent. Thus no
      communication ever took place between me and this George Montague."  
  "George Montague!" ejaculated Richard.  
  "Yes—he was the villain who has plundered us."  
  "George Montague again!" murmured Richard, as he paced the room with hurried and uneven
      steps. "Why is it that this name should constantly obtrude itself upon my notice? wherefore
      should I be perpetually condemned to hear it uttered, and always coupled with epithets of
      abhorrence and reproach? and why should I be amongst the number of that miscreant's victims?
      Strange combination of circumstances!"  
  "Are you acquainted with this Montague?" demanded his guardian: "the name seemed to produce
      a singular effect upon you."  
  "I am not acquainted with him: like you, I have never even seen him," said Markham. "But I
      have heard much concerning him; and all that I   have   heard is evil. Surely—surely
      justice will some day overtake a miscreant who is constantly preying upon society, and who
      enriches himself at the expense of his fellow-creatures' happiness!"  
  Some time longer was devoted to conversation upon topics of interest to Markham and his
      guardian; and when the former had partially succeeded in tranquillising the mind of the
      latter, the old man was suffered to take his departure.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXVIII. THE VISIT.  
  WE purpose to follow the history of Richard Markham a little farther, ere we return to Eliza
      Sydney, whose adventures, after her release from Newgate, will, it is believed, excite the
      liveliest interest in the minds of the readers.  
  As soon as Mr. Monroe had taken his departure, Richard made Whittingham acquainted with his
      altered prospects; and they two together settled certain economical alterations in the
      establishment at the Place which were calculated to meet the limited means of its master, who,
      it will be remembered, was now of age, and, consequently invested with the control of the
      little property that the villany of George Montague had left him.  
  Markham then proceeded, attended by Whittingham, to visit the various apartments of the old
      mansion from which he had been so long absent: and each recalled to his mind reminiscences
      that circumstances had made painful. In one apartment he had been wont to sit with his revered
      father of an evening, and survey the adjacent scenery and the mighty city from the windows. In
      another he had pursued his studies with the dearly loved brother whom he had lost: whichever
      way he turned, visions calculated to oppress his mind rose before him. He felt like a criminal
      who had disgraced an honourable name; and even the very pictures of his ancestors appeared to
      frown upon him from their antique and dust-covered frames.  
  But when he entered the room where the spirit of his father had taken its leave of this
      world, his emotions almost overpowered him. He wept aloud; and even the old butler did not now
      endeavour to comfort him. He had returned, branded with shame, to a house where he had
      received an existence that was full of hope and honour:—he had come back to a dwelling in the
      rooms of which were hung the portraits of many great and good men, who were his ancestors, but
      amongst whom his own likeness could never take a place, for fear that some visitor to that
      mansion should write the words "  Freed Convict  " upon the frame.  
  For though conscience reproached him not for guilt, the world would not believe his
      innocence.  
  That night he could not sleep; and he hailed the dawn of morning as the shipwrecked mariner
      upon the raft beholds the signal of assistance in the horizon. He rose, and hastened to the
      hill, where he seated himself upon the bench between the two trees. There he gave free vent to
      his tears; and he was relieved.  
  Suddenly his eye caught sight of letters carved upon the bark of his brother's tree. He
      looked closer; and, to his indescribable joy, he beheld these characters rudely but deeply cut
      on the tree:—  
    Eugene.    
  Dec. 25, 1836.  
   scenes of his youth! Oh, Eugene! I thank thee for this: it is an assurance that
      the appointment on the 10th of July, 1843, will be punctually kept!"  
  From the moment when his eyes rested upon the memorial of his lost brother thus carved upon
      the bark of the tree, Richard's mind became composed, and, indeed, comparatively happy. His
      habits, however, grew more and more secluded and reserved; and he seldom ventured into that
      mighty Babylon whose snares had proved so fatal to his happiness.  
  One day—it was about the middle of March, 1838—Richard was surprised by the arrival of a
      phaeton and pair at his abode; and he eagerly watched from the window to ascertain who could
      have thought of paying him a visit. In a few minutes he was delighted to see Mr. Armstrong,
      the political martyr with whom he had become acquainted in Newgate, alight from the
      vehicle.  
  Richard hastened to welcome him with the most unfeigned sincerity.  
  "You see I have found you out, my dear young friend," said Armstrong. "I miscalculated the
      date of your release from that abominable hole, and a few weeks ago was waiting for hours one
      day in Giltspur Street to welcome you to freedom. At length I did what I ought to have done at
      first—that is, inquired of the turnkeys whether you were to be released that day or not: and,
      behold—I found that the bird had flown."  
  "I should have written to you," said Richard, "for you were kind enough to give me your
      address; but really my mind has been so bent upon solitude——"  
  "From which solitude," interrupted Armstrong, smiling, "I am come to drag you away. Will you
      allow me to dispose of the next ten days for you?"  
  "How do you mean, my good friend?" inquired Markham.  
  "I mean that you shall pass that time with me at the house of a friend at Richmond. Solitude
      and seclusion will never wean you from the contemplation of your past sorrows."  
  "But you know that I cannot go into society again," said Richard.  
  "This is absurd, Markham. I will hear no apologies: you must and shall place yourself at my
      disposal," returned the old gentleman, in a kind and yet positive manner.  
  "But to whom do you wish to introduce me?" inquired Markham.  
  "To an Italian emigrant, who has only just arrived in this country, with his family, but the
      honour of whose friendship I have enjoyed for many, many years. I must tell you that I have
      travelled much; and that Italy has always been a country which has excited my warmest
      sympathy. It was at Montoni, the capital of the Grand Duchy of Castelcicala that I first met
      Count Alteroni; and his extremely liberal political opinions, which completely coincide with
      my own, were the foundation of a staunch friendship between us. Ten years ago he was compelled
      to fly from his native land; and he sought refuge in England. His only child—a beautiful girl
      of the name of Isabella—thus obtained an English education and speaks the language with
      fluency. Two years ago, he was allowed to return to Castelcicala; but a few months back fresh
      political events in that state forced him once more to become an exile. He arrived in England
      a month ago, and has taken a small but commodious and picturesque residence at Richmond. His
      means are ample, but not vast; and he therefore lives in comparative seclusion—other reasons,
      moreover, inducing him to avoid the pomp and ostentation which noblemen of his rank usually
      maintain. Thus, in addressing him, you must drop the formality of   My Lord  ; and
      remember also that his daughter chooses to be called simply,   Miss Isabella  , or the
         Signora Isabella  ."  
  "And how can I venture to present myself to this nobleman of high rank, and his wife and
      daughter, knowing that but a few weeks ago I was liberated from a gaol?" demanded Richard,
      somewhat bitterly.  
  "The count has not heard of your misfortune, and is not likely to do so," answered
      Armstrong. "He pressed me yesterday to pass a few days with him; and I happened to mention
      that I was about to visit a young friend—meaning yourself—in whom I felt a deep interest. I
      then gave him such an account of you that he expressed a desire to form your acquaintance.
      Thus, you perceive, that I am taking no unwarranted liberty in introducing you to his house.
      As for the danger which you incur of your history being known, that cannot be avoided; and it
      is a point which you may as well risk now as upon any future occasion. A man of the world must
      always be prepared for reverses of this kind, and I think that I am not mistaken in you,
      Markham, when I express my opinion that you would know how to vindicate your character and
      assert your innocence in a manner which would disarm resentment and conquer prejudice. At
      least, assume as cheerful an appearance as possible; and, believe me, you will find yourself
      right welcome at the dwelling of Count Alteroni."  
  Reassured by remarks of this nature, and warmed by the generous friendship displayed towards
      him by the Republican writer, Markham's countenance again wore a smile; and he felt more at
      ease than he had done ever since his misfortune. The presence of one who took an interest in
      his welfare—the prospect of enjoying pleasant society—and the idea of change of scene,
      combined to elevate his spirits and create new hopes in his breast. He began to think that he
      was not altogether the solitary, deserted, and sorrow-doomed being he had so lately considered
      himself.  
  It was about four o'clock in the afternoon that the phaeton, in which rode Markham and his
      friend the Republican, entered a spacious shrubbery, through which a wide avenue led to the
      front-door of a very beautiful country residence near Richmond. The dwelling was not large;
      but its external appearance seemed to bear ample testimony to its interior comfort.  
  A domestic, in a plain and unpretending livery, appeared at the door the moment the phaeton
      stopped; and the count himself met his visitors in the hall, to welcome their arrival.  
  The nobleman shook hands with Armstrong in the most cordial manner; and, when Richard was
      introduced to him, he received him with a courtesy and warm affability which showed how much
      any friend of Armstrong's was valued by the Italian exile.  
  The guests were ushered into the drawing-room, where the countess and her daughter, and two
      gentlemen who were also visitors, were seated.  
  But while we allow Richard time to get acquainted with the family of the Italian noble, we
      must give the reader a brief description of the new characters now introduced upon the
      stage.  
   muscular, though slight. His countenance was expressive of great dignity—one
      would almost say of conscious superiority; but this softness of aspect and the nobility of
      demeanour which distinguished him, failed to produce any unpleasant impression, inasmuch as
      every one who approached the count was charmed by the affability of his manners and the
      condescending kindness of his tone.  
  The countess was about two years younger than her husband, and was of a complexion and cast
      of countenance which denoted her northern origin. In fact, she was a German lady of high
      birth; but she spoke Italian, French, and English with as much facility as her own tongue.  
  But what of Isabella? To say that she was beautiful were to say nothing. Her aspect was
      resplendent with all those graces which innocence lavishly diffuses over the lineaments of
      loveliness. She was sixteen years old; and her dark black eyes were animated with all the fire
      of that impassioned age, when even the most rugged paths of life seem adorned and strewed with
      flowers. Her mouth was small; but the lips were full and pouting, and revealed, when she
      smiled, a set of beautifully white and even teeth. Her hair was dark as the raven's wing, and
      was invariably arranged in the most natural and simple manner. Her brows were exquisitely
      pencilled; and as her large black eyes were the mirror of her pure and guileless soul, when
      she glanced downwards, and those expressive orbs were concealed by their long black fringes,
      it seemed as if she were drawing a veil over her thoughts. Her complexion was that of a
      brunette; but the pure, red blood shone in her vermilion lips and her rose-tinted nostrils,
      and mantled her pure brow with a crimson hue when any passion was excited. Her sylph-like
      figure was modelled with the most perfect symmetry. Her waist was so delicate, and her hands
      and feet so small, that it was easy to perceive she came of patrician blood; and the swell of
      her bosom gave a proper roundness to her form, without expanding into proportions that might
      be termed voluptuous.  
  In manners, disposition, and accomplishments Isabel was equally calculated to charm all her
      acquaintances. Having finished her education in England, she had united all the solid morality
      of English manners, with the sprightliness and vivacity of her native clime; and as she was
      without levity and frivolity, she was also entirely free from any insipid and ridiculous
      affectations. She was artlessness itself; her manners commanded universal respect; and her
      bearing alone repressed the impertinence of the libertine's gaze. With a disposition naturally
      lively, she was still attached to serious pursuits; and her mind was well stored with all
      useful information, and embellished with every feminine accomplishment.  
  The two gentlemen who were present in the drawing room when Armstrong and Richard arrived,
      were two young   beaux  —members of the aristocracy; and this was their only
      recommendation. It was not however, on this account that they had obtained a footing in the
      count's abode; but because they were nearly related to a deceased English general who had
      taken part with the Italians against the French, during the career of Napoleon, and had been
      of essential service to the family to which the count belonged. With regard to their exterior,
      suffice it to say, that they were dressed in the extreme of fashion one was very effeminate in
      appearance, having neither whiskers nor the slightest appearance of a beard; and the other was
      rather good-looking, sported an incipient moustachio, and wore an undress military
      uniform.  
  The effeminate young gentleman was introduced to Armstrong and Markham by the name of Sir
      Cherry Bounce, and the moustachioed one as the Honourable Smilax Dapper, a captain (at the age
      of twenty) in His Majesty's—th Regiment of Hussars.  
  During the hour which intervened between the arrival of the new guests and the announcement
      of dinner, a conversation ensued which will serve to throw some light upon the characters of
      those inmates of the hospitable abode, whom we have as yet only partially introduced to our
      readers.  
  "You reside in a very pleasant and healthy part of London, Mr. Markham," said the count; "I
      am well acquainted with the situation of your mansion and grounds, from the description which
      my friend Armstrong has given me. The house stands close by a hill, on the summit of which
      there are two trees."  
  "Ah, indeed!" ejaculated Sir Cherry Bounce. "The other day I wode by there for the firtht
      time in my life; and I remember the houth ith veway beautifully thithuate in the neighbourwood
      of the bill dethwibed by the count, and with two ath tweeth on the top."  
  "That is my house," said Richard. "But it is an antiquated, gloomy-looking pile; but——"  
  "Oh! I beg your pardon, thir; it is the thweeteth little plaith I ever thaw. I never thaw it
      but that time, and wath thwuck with the weway wemarkable appearanth of the hill and the
      tweeth."  
  "Those trees were planted many years ago by my brother and myself," said Markham, a deep
      shade of melancholy suddenly overclouding his countenance; "and they yet remain there as the
      trysting-mark for a strange appointment."  
  "Indeed!" said the count; and as Richard saw that Isabella was also interested in his
      observations, he determined to gratify the sentiment of curiosity which he had excited.  
  "It is nearly seven years since that event took place. My elder brother disputed with my
      father, and determined to leave home and choose some career for himself, which he hoped might
      lead to fortune. He and I parted upon that hill, beneath those trees, with the understanding
      that in twelve years we were to meet again upon that same spot, and then compare our
      respective fortunes and worldly positions. On the 10th of July, 1843, that appointment is to
      be kept."  
  "And during the seven years which have already elapsed, have you received no tidings of your
      brother?" inquired Isabella.  
  "None direct," answered Markham. "All that I know is that on Christmas-day, 1836, he was
      alive; for he went to the hill, while I was absent from home, and carved his name upon the
      tree that he himself planted."  
  "Strike me stupid, if that isn't the most romantic thing I ever heard of!" exclaimed Captain
      Dapper, caressing his moustachio.  
  "You ought to wite a copy of vertheth upon the wemarkable inthident, in Mith Ithabella'th
         Album  ," observed Sir Cherry Bounce.  
  "So I would, strike me! if I was half such a good poet as you, Cherry," returned the
      captain.  
  "You wote thum veway pwetty poetry the other day upon the   Gweat Thea Therpenth  ,
      Thmilackth," said the effeminate baronet: "and I don't know why you thouldn't do the thame by
      the two ath tweeth."  
  "Yes; but—strike me ugly! Miss Isabella would not let me insert them in her   Album  ,"
      observed the captain; "and that was very unkind."  
    
  "And now it theemth for all the world like an enormouth fwog," said Sir Cherry.  
  "Now, really, Bounce, that is too bad!" drawled the captain, playing with his moustachio. "I
      appeal to the signora herself, whether the butterfly was so very—very bad?"  
  "Considering it to be your first attempt," said the young lady, "it was not so very much
      amiss; and I must say that I preferred the butterfly to the lines upon the Sea Serpent."  
  "Well, may I perish," cried the hussar, "if I think the lines were so bad. But we will refer
      them to Mr. Markham;—not that I dispute Miss Isabella's judgment: I'd rather have my
      moustachios singed than do that! But——"  
  "The vertheth! the vertheth!" cried Sir Cherry.  
  "I am afraid that my talent does not justify such a reference to it," said Markham; "and I
      should rather imagine that Miss Isabella's decision will admit of no appeal."  
  "My dear thir, we will have your opinion. The vertheth were compothed in a hurway; and they
      may not be quite tho ekthellent and faultleth ath they might be."  
  "I only devoted half an hour to them, strike me if I did!"  
  "Let'th thee—how do they begin?" continued the effeminate young baronet of nineteen. "Oh! I
      wemember—the opening ith thimple but ekpwethive:  
  
  "Thwough the thea the therpenth wollth,  
  Moving ever 'thwixth the polth,  
  Fwightning herwinth, pwath, and tholth,  
  In hith pwogweth wapid;—  
  Thwallowing up the mighty thipth,  
  By the thuction of hith lipth,  
  Onward thill the monthtwer twipth,  
  Like——"  
  
  "Well, strike me!" interrupted the captain, "if ever I heard poetry spouted like that
      before. Please listen to me, Mr. Markham. This is the way the poem opens:—  
  
  "Through the sea the serpent rolls  
  Moving ever 'twixt the poles,  
  Fright'ning herrings, sprats, and soles,  
  In his progress rapid;—  
  Swallowing up the mighty ships,  
  By the motion of his lips,  
  Onward still the monster trips,  
  Like——"  
  
  "No, that ithn't the way," cried Sir Cherry.  
  "Well, strike me, if I'll say another word more then," returned the captain of hussars,
      apparently very much inclined to cry.  
  "I am sure Miss Isabella was wrong not to have inserted these verses in her album," said
      Armstrong, with a smile of good-natured satire. "But I know that my young friend, Mr. Markham,
      has a more refined taste with regard to poetry than he chose just now to admit."  
  "Indeed!" said the beautiful Isabella; "I should be delighted to hear Mr. Markham's
      sentiments upon the subject of poetry; for I confess that I myself entertain very singular
      notions in that respect. It is difficult to afford a minute definition of what poetry is; for,
      like the unearthly visitants which the fears of superstition have occasionally summoned to the
      world, poetry fascinates the senses, but eludes the grasp of the beholder, and stands before
      him visible, powerful, and yet impalpable!"  
  "I concur with your views, Miss Isabella," said Markham, delighted to hear, amidst the
      frivolity of the conversation, remarks which exhibited sound sense and judgment. "It is
      impossible to set forth, in any array of words, the subtlety and peculiarity of poetry, which
      soars above the powers of language and defies the reach of description."  
  "Yes," said Isabella; "the painter cannot place the rainbow or the glittering dew-drop upon
      his canvass; the sculptor cannot invest his image with a soul; and it seems equally difficult
      to define poetry."  
  "We know of what we are speaking when we allude to it; but there are no definitions which
      give us views of it sufficiently comprehensive."  
  "Well, strike me! if I didn't think that every thing with rhymes, or in lines of a certain
      length, was poetry," observed the captain of hussars.  
  "My daughter can explain the mystery to you," said the countess, surveying Isabella with
      pride and maternal enthusiasm.  
  Isabella blushed deeply. She feared that she had intruded her remarks on the company, and
      dreaded to be considered vain or anxious for display. Markham immediately perceived the nature
      of her thoughts, and skilfully turned the conversation to the poetry of her native land, and
      thence to the leading characteristics and features of Italian life.  
  Dinner was at length announced, and Richard had the felicity of conducting the lovely
      daughter of the count to the dining-room, and of occupying a seat by her side during the
      banquet.  
  
  CHAPTER XXXIX. THE DREAM.  
  THREE weeks passed away in a most agreeable manner, and Richard frequently expressed his
      gratitude to Armstrong for the pleasure he had procured him by this visit.  
  The more he saw of Count Alteroni's daughter, the more he was compelled to admire her
      personal and mental qualifications. But he felt somewhat annoyed when he discovered that
      Captain Smilax Dapper was paying his addresses to her: for he was interested in so charming a
      young lady, and would have regretted to see her throw herself away on such a coxcomb. He did
      not however find that Isabella gave the captain any encouragement: on the contrary he had
      frequently seen an erratic smile of contempt upon her lips when the military aspirant to her
      hand uttered an absurdity or indulged in an air of affectation.  
  By the constant and unvaried respect, and the absence of all familiarity on the part of
      Dapper towards the lovely Italian, Markham also argued that he had not as yet declared his
      sentiments, because had he been a favoured suitor, the truth would have betrayed itself in
      some trifling manner or another. Moreover, as Isabella conducted herself in only just the same
      friendly way towards Captain Dapper as she manifested towards her father's other guests,
      Richard saw no reason to believe that this passion was reciprocal.  
  Markham was thrown much in the signora's society during his visit at her father's house. He
      soon perceived that she preferred a conversation upon edifying and intellectual subjects to
      the frivolous chit-chat of Sir Cherry Bounce and Captain Dapper; and he frequently found
      himself carrying on a lengthened discourse upon music, poetry, painting and Italian
      literature, while the others were amusing themselves in the billiard or smoking-rooms. But
      Isabel was no blue-stocking; she was full of vivacity and life, and her conversation was
      sprightly and agreeable, even when turning upon those serious subjects.  
   he who turned the leaves of Isabella's music-book, "because Captain Dapper
      didn't know when;" she always took his arm when they walked round the shrubbery and garden
      after breakfast, "because Captain Dapper was constantly leaving her to play Sir Cherry some
      trick;" and somehow or another at meal-times, Richard and Isabella were invariably seated next
      to each other.  
  Such was the state of things at the expiration of three weeks, to which extent, although
      contrary to the original proposal of Armstrong, the visit had already extended; and Captain
      Smilax Dapper more than once fancied that he saw a rival in Richard Markham. At length he
      determined to communicate his suspicions to his friend Sir Cherry Bounce—a resolution which he
      carried into effect in the following manner.  
  "Cherry, my dear fellow," said he, one morning, taking the effeminate young baronet with him
      into the garden, up the gravel walks of which he walked in a very excited state; "Cherry, my
      dear fellow, I have something upon my mind, strike me! and I wish to unburden myself to
      you."  
  "Do you, Thmilackth? What can pothibly be the matter?" demanded the youth, turning very
      pale. "Ith it veway terwible? becauth if it ith, I had better call the count, and he will
      bwing hith blunderbuth."  
  "Strike me an idiot, Cherry, if you ain't a fool with your counts and blunderbusses. Now
      listen to me! I love Isabella, and have been doing the agreeable to her——"  
  "On my thoul I never could thee it!"  
  "I dare say not! strike me, if I didn't keep it so precious snug and quiet! However I love
      the girl; and curse me if I don't have her too—that's more! She shall be Mrs. Smilax Dapper,
      as sure as she's born, and I hope the mother of a whole regiment of little Smilaxes. And then
      Cherry, you shall stay a month or six weeks with us at a time, and fondle the little ones on
      your knees, you shall, and every thing will go on comfortable and smooth."  
  "Oh! veway thmooth!" cried Sir Cherry Bounce, making a slight grimace at the pleasing
      prospect of fondling the Little Dappers upon his knees.  
  "And I suppose I am not presumptuous in aspiring to the hand of Isabella? My father is a
      peer—and my uncle is a peer—and I have three thousand a-year of my own, beside expectations.
      Strike me, if I'm a man to be sneezed at!"  
  "Who thinkth of thneething at you?"  
  "I don't know exactly. And then I am not such a very bad looking fellow either. You are not
      ugly, Cherry, you are not—that is, not particularly ugly, although you have got pink eyes, and
      white lashes, and a pug nose;—but I'm more athletic, strike me!"  
  "I'm thure I don't dithpute what you thay."  
  "Well then—acknowledging all this," proceeded the captain, "how should I treat a fellow who
      endeavours to cut me out?"  
  "Thallenge him to fight with thword and pithtol," answered Sir Cherry. "But who ith he?"  
  "That upstart fellow, Markham, who was brought here by that odious, republican, seditious,
      disloyal scoundrel Armstrong, and who talks all day about poetry and music, and God knows
      what. However, I can't say I admire that plan of yours," continued the hussar; "swords and
      pistols, you know are so very dangerous; and—and—"  
  "And what elth?"  
  "Why, you're a fool, Cherry. I thought you would have hit upon some plan to enable me to
      secure the prize."  
  "Well then—thuppothing we carwy the girl off, to Wochethter for inthanth."  
  "Deuce take Rochester! my regiment is quartered at Chatham."  
  "Well—to Canterbury then?"  
  "Yes—that will do—strike me blind if it won't!" ejaculated the captain. "But if I could only
      get rid of this Markham somehow or another, I should prefer it. The fellow——"  
  Captain Smilax Dapper stopped short: for at that moment, as he and his companion were
      turning the angle of a summer-house, they ran against Richard Markham.  
  "It wath'nt me—it wath'nt me who thpoke!" ejaculated Sir Cherry Bounce; and having uttered
      these words, he very fairly took to his heels, leaving his friend the captain to settle
      matters as best he might.  
  "Who was taking a most unwarrantable liberty with my name?" demanded Richard, walking
      straight up to Captain Smilax Dapper.  
  "I certainly made an observation," answered the captain, turning mighty pale, "and I do not
      hesitate to say, sir——"  
  "What, sir?"  
  "Why, sir—that I feel, sir—that strike me, sir!"  
  "Yes, sir—I   shall   strike you," very coolly answered Markham; "and that will teach
      you not to speak lightly of one, who is a comparative stranger to you, on another
      occasion."  
  As he uttered these words, he seized the captain by the collar, and gave him a couple of
      boxes on the ears. Dapper endeavoured to pluck up a spirit and resist; but the ceremony was
      performed before he could release himself from his assailant's clutches and he then returned
      to the house, muttering threats of vengeance.  
  That same afternoon Markham took leave of his new friends.  
  On his return home, he found his dwelling more lonely and cheerless than ever. He felt that
      he was isolated in the world; and his heart seemed to be pierced with a red-hot iron when the
      remembrance of all his wrongs returned to his imagination.  
  Oh! if we would but study the alphabet of fate, and remember that each leaf which falls,
      each flower that dies, is but the emblem of man's kindred doom, how much of the coldness, the
      selfishness, the viciousness of life would be swept away, and earth would be but a proof-sheet
      of heaven's fairer volume—with errors and imperfections, it is true, but still susceptible of
      correction and amendment, ere its pages be unfolded before the High Chancery of heaven!  
  Spring now asserted its tranquil reign once more; and May strewed the earth with flowers,
      and covered the trees with foliage.  
  One evening Richard sate in his library reading until a very late hour. Night came, and
      found him at his studies; and the morning dawned ere he thought of retiring to slumber.  
  He hastened to his bed-room, with the intention of seeking his couch; but he felt no
      inclination to sleep. He walked up to the window, drew aside the curtain, and gazed forth into
      the open air. The partial obscurity seemed to hang like a dusky veil against the windows: but
      by degrees the darkness yielded to the grey light of the dawn.  
   kept, and why Eugene came not to revisit the home of his birth.  
  He was in the midst of cogitations like these, when his eyes were suddenly struck by an
      object which seemed to be moving between the trees upon the top of the hill. A superstitious
      fear seized upon Richard's mind. In the first moment of his surprise he imagined that the
      apparition of his brother had been led back to the trysting-place by those leafy banners that
      proclaimed the covenant of the heart. But he speedily divested himself of that momentary
      alarm, and smiled at his folly in believing it to be extraordinary that any one should visit
      the hill at that early hour.  
  The object was still there—it was a human being—and, as the morning gradually grew brighter,
      he was enabled to distinguish that it was a man.  
  But that was the hour at which labourers went to their daily toils:—still, why should one of
      those peasants linger upon the top of the hill, to reach which he must have gone out of his
      way?  
  Markham felt an indescribable curiosity to repair to the hill;—but he was ashamed to yield
      to the superstitious impulse under the influence of which he still more or less laboured;—and
      the sudden disappearance of the object of his anxiety from the hill confirmed him in his
      resolution to remain in his chamber. He accordingly closed the blind, and retired to his
      couch, where he shortly sank into a deep slumber.  
  Markham was now plunged into the aërial world of dreams. First he saw himself walking by the
      side of Isabella in a cool and shady grove, where the birds were singing cheerily in the
      trees; and it seemed to him that there reigned a certain understanding between himself and his
      fair companion which allowed him to indulge in the most delightful and tender hopes. He
      pressed her hand—she returned the token of affection and love. Suddenly this scene was rudely
      interrupted. From a deep recess in the grove appeared a wretch, covered with rags, dirty and
      revolting in appearance, with matted hair, parched and cracked lips, wild and ferocious eyes,
      and a demoniac expression of countenance. Isabella screamed: the wretch advanced, grasped
      Richard's hand, gave utterance to a horrible laugh, and claimed his friendship—the friendship
      of Newgate! It seemed to Richard that he made a desperate effort to withdraw his hand from
      that rude grasp;—and the attempt instantly awoke him.  
  He opened his eyes;—but the horror experienced in his dream was now prolonged, for a human
      countenance was bending over him!  
  It was not, however, the distorted, hideous, and fearful one which he had seen in his
      vision,—but a countenance handsome, though very pale, and whose features were instantly
      familiar to him.  
  "Eugene, my brother—Eugene, dearest Eugene!" ejaculated Richard; and he stretched out his
      arms to embrace him whom he thus adjured.  
  But scarcely had his eyes opened upon that countenance, when it was instantly withdrawn; and
      Richard remained for a few moments in his bed, deprived of all power of motion, and
      endeavouring to assure himself whether he was awake or in a vision.  
  A sudden impulse roused him from his lethargy;—he sprang from his couch, rushed towards the
      door, and called aloud for his brother.  
  The door was closed when he reached it; and no trace seemed to denote that any visitor had
      been in that chamber.  
  He threw on a dressing-gown, hurried down stairs, and found all the doors fast closed and
      locked as usual at that hour. He opened the front-door, and looked forth,—but no one was to be
      seen. Bewildered and alarmed, he returned to his bed-chamber, and once more sought his couch.
      He again fell asleep, in the midst of numerous and conflicting conjectures relative to the
      incident which had just occurred; and when he awoke two hours afterwards, he was fain to
      persuade himself that it was all a dream.  
  He dressed himself, and walked towards the hill. On his arrival at the top, he instinctively
      cast his eyes upon the name and date carved in the bark of his brother's tree. But how great
      was his surprise—how ineffable his joy, when he beheld fresh traces of the same hand imprinted
      on that tree. Beneath the former memento—and still fresh and green, as if they had only been
      engraved a few hours—were the words—  
    Eugene.    
    May 17th, 1838.    
  "My God!" exclaimed Richard, "it was then no dream!"  
  He threw himself upon the seat between the two trees and wept abundantly.  
  
  CHAPTER XL. THE SPECULATION.—AN UNWELCOME MEETING.  
  FIVE months elapsed; and in the middle of October Richard received an invitation to pass a
      few days at the abode of Count Alteroni.  
  He contemplated change of scene with unfeigned delight, and lost no time in repairing to
      Richmond.  
  The count received him with the utmost cordiality: the countess expressed a regret that he
      should wait to be solicited to honour them with his company; and Isabella's countenance wore a
      smile and a blush as she extended her hand towards him.  
  "I was anxious to see you again," said the count, after dinner, before the ladies had
      retired, "if it were only to joke you about the fright into which you threw poor Bounce the
      last time you were here. Isabel apprehended a duel between you and Dapper; but we never could
      learn the origin of your dispute."  
  "Indeed, I scarcely dreaded such an event," said Isabella; "for however capable Mr. Markham
      may be of fighting, I felt perfectly well convinced that Captain Dapper would not be induced
      to commit such a breach of the peace."  
  "Our dispute was a mere trifle," said Markham; "and I am sorry it should have reached your
      ears."  
  "The Trojan war sprung from a trifle," cried the count: "but these trifles are frequently
      very interesting."  
  "The truth is," said Richard, "that I overheard Captain Dapper abuse me to his companion,
      heaven only knows why! Sir Cherry Bounce started away; and I was compelled to give the young
      officer a couple of boxes upon the ears to teach him courtesy in future."  
  Isabella laughed heartily at this anecdote; and Markham felt indescribably happy when he
      thus received a convincing proof that the lovely Italian was in no way interested in that
      aspirant to her hand.  
  "I shall not invite those gentlemen here very readily again," observed the count. "I thought
      that they would have helped to pass away the time agreeably; but one was such a fool, and the
      other such a fop, that I was really glad to get rid of them. However, I have now something
      else to occupy my attention."  
   know, Mr. Markham, are struck with the facility with which enormous fortunes are
      built up in your country."  
  "Italy has lost all her commerce," added the count, with a sigh: "poor Italy!"  
  "With all due deference to your experience," said Markham, "I should counsel you to be
      particularly careful how you allow yourself to be deluded by visionaries and adventurers."  
  "Oh! the gentleman who has proposed to me certain schemes for the realization of an immense
      fortune, is a man of probity and honour. The truth is, that the political condition of Italy
      may possibly compel me to remain an exile from my native land for the rest of my existence;
      and I am anxious to turn the means now within my reach to the best advantage for my
      daughter."  
  "You know, my dear father," said Isabella, her eyes filling with tears, "that I can be
      contented with a little—a very little."  
  "I think I have before informed you that I lost a considerable portion of my own property
      through the nefarious speculations of an adventurer," observed Richard; "and I must confess
      that I look with a suspicious eye upon all schemes which induce us to change realities for
      chances. You possess, count, all that you require to make you happy during your exile;—why
      should you sigh and languish after immense wealth?"  
  The signora bestowed a glance of gratitude upon Markham, who also rose considerably in the
      estimation of the countess. Indeed, both the ladies were very much averse to the count's ideas
      of speculating; and they were delighted to find in their visitor so able an advocate of their
      opinions.  
  "I consider," resumed the count, "that a man is bound to do the best he can to increase the
      property he has to leave his offspring; and as my own estate in Castelcicala is confiscated,
      and I have nothing to rely upon but a certain sum of ready-money, I am determined to vest the
      greater portion of it in an enterprize which will produce immense returns."  
  "And what may the nature of the undertaking be?" inquired Markham.  
  "A line of steam-packets between London and Montoni, the capital of Castelcicala. Such an
      enterprize would absorb all the commerce now enjoyed by Leghorn and Civita Vecchia; and
      Montoni would be the great mercantile port of Italy."  
  "The scheme certainly seems plausible," observed Richard; "and, guided by your experience,
      may realize your expectations. I would rather see you embarking money in such an undertaking
      than in those desperate and outrageous ones which have nothing but their originality to
      recommend them."  
  The count smiled with triumph and satisfaction at having thus disarmed the opposition of his
      young friend to the projected speculation.  
  On the following day Count Alteroni repaired to London, and did not return home until
      dinner-time.  
  After dinner, when he and Richard were sitting alone together, sipping their claret, the
      count said in a semi-mysterious and confidential manner, "I have this morning broken the ice:
      indeed, I have made the first plunge. I have confided the necessary funds to Mr.
      Greenwood—that is the name of the gentleman with whom I am to co-operate:—and he will
      immediately busy himself with the foundation of the enterprize. I shall not, however, mention
      this to the countess and Isabella for a few days; for in commercial matters ladies always
      entertain apprehensions which give one what you English call the 'blue-devils.'"  
  Richard made no observation. The evil—if evil it were—was done; and he did not choose to
      fill the count with apprehensions which might eventually prove to be unfounded. The
      conversation upon the subject accordingly dropped for the present; and the two gentlemen
      joined the ladies in the drawing-room.  
  Several weeks glided away; and Markham still remained at Richmond. His acquaintance with the
      count's family rapidly expanded into an intimacy which gave him unfeigned pleasure. The count
      treated him as a near relative—almost as a son; the countess was charmed with him because he
      could converse upon German literature and history;—and where the parents were so encouraging,
      how could the daughter be reserved? Isabella was naturally of a frank and confiding
      disposition; and she soon learned to consider Markham as a very intimate friend of the family.
      Whenever he hinted at the necessity of returning to his own home, he expressed his fears that
      he was intruding upon the hospitality of his kind hosts, Isabella always had some cause ready
      to delay his departure, as soon as her father and mother had concluded their own entreaties
      for him to prolong his visit. Markham had nothing to occupy his attention elsewhere; and he
      was thus easily induced to remain in a mansion where he received so much kindness, and where
      there was an attraction that daily disclosed new charms and revealed fresh spells.  
  It was in the middle of December that Markham was walking, on a fine frosty morning, with
      Isabella along the high road in the immediate vicinity of the count's dwelling, when he
      noticed a strange and repulsive looking individual following them at a short distance. At
      first he supposed that the man's way lay in the same direction which he and his fair companion
      were pursuing; he accordingly turned with Isabella into another path, and, to his misfortune
      and annoyance, found that he was still followed by the stranger whose dilapidated appearance,
      long black matted hair, week's beard, filthy person, and sinister expression of countenance,
      filled him with alarming suspicions.  
  He remembered his dream; and a shudder passed through his frame.  
  Determined to ascertain the motive of this man's perseverance in dogging him thus, he
      conducted Isabella by a short cut back to the house, and retraced his steps to encounter the
      person who was still following him.  
  The man advanced towards him with a dogged and determined air, and yet downcast eyes, which
      were buried beneath his projecting temples and shaggy brows.  
  "Holloa, my fine fellow!" he exclaimed, when he came within a few yards of Richard; "you
      don't mean to say that you have forgotten an old pal?"  
  "What, Anthony—is this you?" said Markham, turning deadly pale as he recognised one of his
      fellow-prisoners in Newgate.  
  It was the Resurrection Man.  
  "Yes—it is me—poor Tony Tidkins. But now permit me to ask you a question or two. What are
      you doing now? Who lives there? And what young girl was that you were walking about with?"  
  "And by what right do you dare put those insolent queries to me?" cried Markham, surveying
      the ruffian with mingled indignation and disgust.  
  "Oh! if you don't choose to answer my questions, I can precious soon ascertain all the truth
      for myself," coolly replied the Resurrection Man, who never once looked Markham in the
      face—then, having uttered these words, he advanced a few paces as if he were about to seek the
      count's dwelling.  
   Richard, hurrying after him and detaining him by the arm: "you do not know that
      that abode is sacred—that it is the residence of probity, innocence, and honour—that if you
      were to breathe a hint who and what you are, you would be spurned from the door?"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Ah! I am accustomed to   that   in this Christian land—in this land of Bibles and
      Missionary Societies," said the Resurrection Man bitterly: then, resuming his dogged surliness
      of tone, he added, "But at all events I can first ask for alms and a morsel of bread at that
      house, and thereupon state that the gentleman who was just now walking with the young lady
      belonging to the house, was a companion of mine in Newgate—a communication which will tend to
      preserve the innocence, honour, probity, and all the rest of it, of that family."  
  With these words he again set off in the direction of the count's abode.  
  "Confusion!" exclaimed Markham: "this man will now effect my ruin!"  
  A second time did he stop the Resurrection Man as he advanced towards the residence of the
      Italians.  
  "Well—what now? isn't a man at liberty to walk which way he chooses?"  
  "You cannot be so base as to betray me? you would not ruin my happiness for ever?" said
      Richard, in whose mind the particulars of his dream were now uppermost.  
  "And why should I have any regard for you, since you receive and treat me as if I was a
      dog?"  
  "I really did not mean——"  
    
  "My God! what do you want of me? what can I do for you?" exclaimed Richard, uncertain how to
      act, and his mind a prey to the most painful emotions; for he already fancied that he saw
      himself exposed—banished from the count's hospitable roof—separated from Isabella, without a
      chance of reconciliation—and reproached for having intruded himself upon the society of a
      virtuous and untainted family.  
  The mere anticipation of such an afflicting series of incidents was more than he could bear;
      and he was prepared to make any sacrifices to avert so terrible an occurrence.  
  "I may obtain from your fears what I should not have got from your generosity," exclaimed
      the Resurrection Man: "but it doesn't matter what motive produces it, so long as I get
      it."  
  "And what is it that you require?" asked Richard hastily. "But let us walk aside—they may
      see us from the windows."  
  "And what do I care it they do?" brutally demanded the Resurrection Man. "I suppose I shan't
      suffer in character by talking to a companion in former misfortunes?" he added, in a sarcastic
      tone.  
  There was something peculiarly revolting about that man;—his death-like countenance,
      jet-black whiskers, shaggy brows, averted glances, and horrible nick-name, all combined to
      render him a loathsome and disgusting object.  
  The contact of such a wretch was like plunging one's hand amidst the spawn of toads.  
  But the savage irony of this monster—oh! that was utterly intolerable. Richard writhed
      beneath it.  
  "Now I tell you what it is," said the Resurrection Man, who probably by this time saw that
      he had reduced the young man to a pliability suitable to his purposes; "if you will only be
      civil I'll accommodate you to the utmost of my power. Let us walk away from the house—we can
      then talk more at our ease."  
  Richard accompanied the miscreant a short distance; and then they again stopped, but no
      longer within view of the count's residence.  
  "You can, doubtless, suppose what I want!" said the Resurrection Man, turning suddenly round
      upon Markham, and looking him full in the face for the first time.  
  "Money, I presume," replied Richard.  
  "Yes—money. I know that you were in expectation of a great fortune when you were in Newgate;
      and I suppose you have not run through it all yet."  
  "I was almost totally ruined, during my imprisonment, by the unfortunate speculations in
      which my guardian engaged," answered Markham mournfully.  
  "That's all my eye! Nevertheless, I won't be hard upon you: I know that you have got a
      splendid house and a grand estate close by——"  
  "A few acres of land, as heaven is my witness!"  
  "Well—you may try it on as much as you like; but I tell you plainly it won't do for me. Let
      us cut this matter devilish short, and come to some understanding at once. I am hard up—I
      don't know what to turn my hand to for a moment; and I can't get orders for the stiff'uns as I
      used to do."  
  "All that I have told you about the loss of my property is quite true," said Markham; "and I
      have now but little more than a bare two hundred a-year to live upon."  
  "Well, I will be generous and let you off easy," said the Resurrection Man. "You shall give
      me for the present——"  
  "For the present!" repeated Markham, all the terror of his mind again betraying itself; "if
      I make any arrangement with you at all, it would be upon the express condition that you would
      never molest me more."  
  "Be it so," said the Resurrection Man, whom the promise cost nothing, and who knew that
      there was nothing to bind him to its implicit performance; "give me five hundred pounds, and I
      will never seek you out again."  
  "Five hundred pounds!" exclaimed Richard: "I cannot command the money!"  
  "Not a mag less will I take," said the extortioner with a determined air and voice.  
  "I really cannot comply with the proposal—I have not the money—I do not know where to get
      it. Why do you persecute me in this way? what harm have I ever done to you? why should you
      seek to ruin me, and to annihilate all my hopes of again establishing myself in an honourable
      position in society? Tell me—by what right, by what law, do you now endeavour to
      extort—vilely, infamously extort—this money from me?"  
  No pen could describe—no painter depict the singular expression of countenance which the
      Resurrection Man wore as these words fell upon his ears. He knew not whether to burst out into
      a fit of laughter, or to utter a volley of imprecations against his former companion in
      Newgate; and so, not to be wrong by doing one and omitting the other, he did both. His
      ironical and ferocious laugh fell horribly upon the ears of Markham, who was at the same time
      assailed by such a string of oaths and blasphemies, that he trembled.  
  "You want to know by what law and right I demand money of you," cried the wretch, when he
      had indulged in this out-pouring of laughter and imprecations to his heart's content: "well—I
      will tell you. My law is that practised by all the world—  the oppression of the weak by the
       strong  ; and my right is also that of universal practice—  the right of him who takes
       what will not dare to be refused  . Now, then, you understand me; and if not, hear my
      resolution."  
  "Speak," said Richard, now thoroughly cooled and disarmed; "and let me know the worst at
      once."  
  "You have confirmed my suspicion that you are courting the young girl I saw you walking
      with: you have confirmed that suspicion by your manner and your words. Now, I require five
      hundred pounds; and if you are anxious that your fair one should remain in ignorance of your
      Old Bailey adventures, you had better comply with my terms."  
  "I positively declare that I have not the money," said Richard.  
  "Make it."  
  "But how?"  
  "Borrow it of the young lady's father or mother, or uncle, or aunt."  
  "Never—impossible!"  
  "You say that you have a few acres of land left. I believe you have more; but let's take
      your own statement. Upon those few acres you can easily borrow the money I require."  
  "And diminish my miserable income still more?"  
  "Yes—or no, without further wrangling? You must be well aware that this sacrifice is
      necessary if the girl is worth having."  
   manner!" cried Markham; for when the lips of that horrible man framed a
      sentiment which bore reference to Isabella, it seemed to Richard as if a loathsome serpent was
      pouring its slimy venom upon a sweet and blooming flower.  
  "Will you give me the money?" demanded the Resurrection Man.  
  "I will give you two hundred pounds—I have no more—I can get no more—I will not raise any
      more upon my property."  
  "Can't be done," returned the ruffian. "I will have the five hundred, or nothing."  
  "It will take some days to procure the money," said Markham, yielding gradually.  
  "Never mind. Give me what you have about you for my present purposes, and name the day and
      place for me to receive the rest."  
  Markham took his purse from his pocket, and examined its contents. There were seventeen
      sovereigns at that moment at his command. He retained two, and handed fifteen to the
      Resurrection Man, who pocketed them with savage glee.  
  "Now this looks like business," said he, "and is an earnest that you will do the thing
      that's right. Where and when for the remainder?"  
  "In a fortnight I will meet you at any place you may name in London," answered Markham.  
  "Well, make it a fortnight. Do you know the   Dark House  , in Brick Lane, Bethnal
      Green?"  
  "What is it?" asked Richard, shuddering at the name.  
  "A public-house. Any one will tell you where it is. This day fortnight I shall expect to
      find you there at eight o'clock in the evening. If I don't happen to be punctual, you can wait
      for me; and if I don't come that night, I shall the next. Remember how much depends upon your
      fulfilment of the contract."  
  "I shall not fail," answered Richard, with a sinking of the heart which none can understand
      who have not been placed in a similar position. "And you, on your part, will adhere to your
      side of the agreement?"  
  "Mute as a mouse," said the Resurrection Man; "and should I afterwards meet you by accident,
      I shall not know you. Farewell."  
  With these words the Resurrection Man turned away, and pursued his course towards
      London.  
  Markham followed him with his eyes until he turned an angle of the road and was no longer to
      be seen.  
  Then only did Richard breathe freely.  
  
  CHAPTER XLI. MR. GREENWOOD.  
  ABOUT six o'clock in the evening—ten days after the incident which concluded the preceding
      chapter,—a handsome cabriolet drove up to the door of a house in Spring Gardens.  
  Down jumped the tiger—an urchin not much bigger than a walking stick—and away went the
      knocker, rat-tat-tat, for upwards of fifteen seconds. A servant in livery opened the door, and
      an elegantly-dressed gentleman, about six or seven and twenty years of age, alighted from the
      vehicle.  
  This gentleman rushed up stairs to his study, drew forth his cheque-book, wrote an order
      upon his banker for a thousand pounds, enclosed it in an envelope, and immediately despatched
      the letter to Lord Tremordyn by one of his numerous domestics. He had that afternoon lost the
      money to his lordship in some sporting-bet; and, "as it was a debt of honour," he could not
      possibly think of sitting down to dinner, or even pulling off his boots (which, being
      fashionable, pinched him excessively) without settling it.  
  As soon as he had done this, another servant entered the room, and said, "If you please,
      sir, Mrs. Mangles has called, and is waiting below to see you. She has been here these three
      hours, and wishes very much to say a few words to you, sir."  
  "What! that bothering upholsterer's wife!" ejaculated the gentleman, in a tone of
      indignation which would have induced a stranger to believe that he was the most persecuted man
      in the world. "Why—her husband's account hasn't been owing quite a year yet; and here she is
      boring from morning to night."  
  "Please, sir, she says that her husband is locked up in a spunging-house."  
  "Serve him right!"  
  "But he is a hard-working sober man——"  
  "He shouldn't run into debt."  
  "And he has five children."  
  "It is really disgusting! these lower orders literally swarm with children!"  
  "And if you would only pay a quarter of the money, he would get out to-night."  
  "I won't pay a sixpence till January."  
  "Then he will be totally ruined, sir, his wife says."  
  "Well—he must be ruined, then. Go and turn her out, and send up Lafleur."  
  And the fashionable gentleman, who would not owe a   debt of honour   for half an hour,
      thought no more of the sum which was due to a tradesman, which had been already owing for
      nearly a year, and which he could have immediately settled without the slightest inconvenience
      to himself.  
  For this man was rich; and, having got his money in the City (God knows how), had now come
      to the West End to make the most of it.  
  "Lafleur," said the fashionable gentleman to the French valet, "you must dismiss that fellow
      John to-morrow morning."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "He actually had the impertinence to bring me a message from a dun, while I was in a hurry
      to get dressed for dinner."  
  "Indeed, sir—you don't say so sir!" ejaculated the valet, who had as much horror of a dun as
      an overseer has of a pauper. "Yes, sir—I will dismiss him to-morrow, sir—and without a
      character too."  
  "Do, Lafleur. And now to dress. Are the company come?"  
  "Mr. Chichester and Sir Rupert Harborough are in the drawing-room, sir."  
  "Oh!" said Mr. Greenwood—for such was the gentleman's name—"very well!"  
  Having carelessly perused three or four letters which he found upon his table, he repaired
      to his dressing-room, where he washed his hands in a silver basin, while the poor
      upholsterer's wife returned to her husband in the lock-up house, to say that their last hope
      had failed, and that nothing but a debtor's gaol awaited them. Accordingly, while the poor man
      was being carried off to Whitecross Street Prison, Mr. Greenwood repaired to his elegantly
      furnished drawing-room to welcome the guests whom he had invited that day to dinner.  
   and I have never seen nor heard of you till this morning."  
  "Upon my honour, I hardly know what we have been doing—or indeed, what we have   not  
      been doing," ejaculated the baronet. "We have been in Paris and Brussels, and enjoyed all the
      pleasures of the Continent."  
  "And we found our way into the good graces of the Parisian ladies, and the purses of their
      husbands," observed Chichester, with a complacent smile.  
  "Ah! ah!" said Mr. Greenwood, laughing. "Trust you both for allowing yourselves to starve in
      a land of plenty."  
  "And so here we are, come back to England quite fresh and ready for new sport," said
      Chichester. "You see that it is useful to go abroad for a season every now and then.
      Immediately after I passed through the Insolvents' Court, two years ago, I went to Paris for
      six months, and came home again with a new reputation, as it were."  
  "By the bye, Sir Rupert," exclaimed Mr. Greenwood, "I lost a cool thousand to your
      father-in-law this afternoon at Tattersall's."  
  "What! does the old lord do things in so spirited a way as that?" cried the baronet.  
  "Yes—now and then. I believe you and he are not on very good terms? When I asked him after
      you a month or two ago, he appeared to evade the conversation."  
  "The fact is," said the baronet, "old Lord and Lady Tremordyn pretend that I treat their
      daughter with neglect—just because I cannot and will not be tied to my wife's apron strings. I
      did not want to marry her; but Lady Tremordyn intrigued to catch me; and the old lord came
      down handsome—and so the match was made up."  
  The baronet did not think of informing his friend that he had stipulated for twenty thousand
      pounds to pay his debts, ere he would do justice to the young and beautiful creature whom he
      had seduced, and whose pathetic appeal to her mother has been already laid before the reader
      in the chapter which treats of the   Black Chamber   of the General Post Office.  
  "Do you know what has become of your old flame Diana Arlington?" inquired Mr. Greenwood of
      the baronet, after a pause.  
  "And was she not   your   old flame too?" said Sir Rupert, laughing. "I believe that
      when you were plain Mr. George Montague, instead of Mr. Montague Greenwood——"  
  "Oh! I have assumed the name of Greenwood, remember, because a relation of that name has
      left me a considerable fortune."  
  "Well—that is a very good story to tell the world, but not friends, my dear fellow," said
      the baronet, coolly. "But we were talking of the Enchantress. I presume she is still under the
      protection of the Earl of Warrington?"  
  "So I understand," replied Greenwood.  
  "Well—I must say," continued the baronet, "I always liked Diana; and I dare say we should
      have been together up to the present moment, if it had not been for that infernal affair of
      Markham's."  
  "Ah! Richard Markham!" ejaculated Mr. Greenwood hastily. "I have heard of him—but never seen
      him."  
  "I and Chichester were compelled to sacrifice him to save ourselves," observed
      Harborough.  
  "Yes—yes—it was a pity—a great pity," cried Greenwood, poking the fire violently.  
  "I wonder what has become of that same Markham?" said Chichester.  
  "I understand that he lost the greater portion of his property by some unfortunate
      speculation or another, but the nature of which I have never learnt," replied Greenwood.  
  "And what about this Steam-Packet Company of which you were speaking this morning?" inquired
      Sir Rupert Harborough.  
  "The fact is, I have got a certain Italian count in tow, and I intend to make him useful. He
      is an emigrant from the Grand Duchy of Castelcicala, having been concerned in some treasonable
      proceedings with Prince Alberto, who is the Grand Duke's nephew, and who has also been
      compelled to fly to some other country. Be it as it may, this Count Alteroni and I became
      acquainted; and, in the course of conversation, he observed that a fortune might be made by
      the establishment of a line of steam-packets between London and Montoni, the capital of
      Castelcicala. He added that he should be very willing to embark his own capital in such an
      enterprise. '  How extraordinary!  ' I immediately exclaimed: '  I had myself
       entertained the very same idea!  ' The count was enchanted; and he has already advanced a
      considerable sum."  
  At this moment dinner was announced; and the three gentlemen proceeded to the apartment in
      which it was served up. The repast consisted of all the luxuries in season, and many
         out   of season: the choicest wines were produced; and justice was done to each and
      all, while wit and humour flowed as freely, and sparkled as brightly as the juice of the grape
      itself. The baronet was more affable than ever;—Mr. Chichester related several amusing
      anecdotes of midnight sprees, policemen, knockers, station-houses, and magistrates;—and Mr.
      Greenwood explained his plans relative to the steam-packets.  
  "I should very much like to have you both in the Direction," said Mr. Montague Greenwood,
      when he had terminated his elucidations: "but I have learnt that this Richard Markham, of whom
      we have been talking, is acquainted with the count; and if he saw your names connected with
      the affair, he would instantly blow upon it. I should then have the count upon me for the
      fifteen thousand pounds he has already lodged in my hands."  
  "Let us write an anonymous letter to the count, and inform him that Markham has been
      convicted at the Old Bailey," suggested Chichester.  
  "No—no," ejaculated Greenwood emphatically: "you have injured that young man enough
      already."  
  "And what do you care about him?" cried Chichester. "You said just now that you had never
      seen him."  
  "I did—and I repeat the assertion," answered Greenwood; then, in a very serious tone, he
      added, "and I will beg you both to remember, gentlemen, that if you wish to co-operate with me
      in any of those speculations which I know so well how to manage, you will leave Mr. Richard
      Markham alone; for I have certain private reasons for being rather anxious to do him a service
      than an injury."  
  "Well, I will not in any way interfere with your good intentions," said the baronet.  
  "Nor I," observed Chichester.  
   was, the Lords of the Treasury got hold of his real position, by some means or
      another—he never could divine how; and they refused a tender which he sent in for a certain
      money contract—I don't know exactly what.   Now   his petition is more desperate than
      ever, and he and I are going to do an admirable stroke of business. I will let you both into
      it."  
  We need scarcely remind the reader that the banker now alluded to was the writer of one of
      the letters perused by the Examiner's clerks in the   Black Chamber  .  
  The conversation between the three gentlemen was proceeding very comfortably, when a servant
      entered the room, and, handing his master a card upon a silver tray, said, "This gentleman,
      sir, requests to be allowed to see you, if perfectly convenient."  
  "The Count Alteroni!" exclaimed Mr. Greenwood. "What the devil could have brought him to
      London at this time of night? John—show him into the study—there is a good fire for him; and
      if that won't warm his heart, perhaps a bottle of Burgundy will."  
  The servant left the room; and in a few moments Mr. Greenwood hastened to join the count in
      the elegant apartment which was denominated "the study."  
  "My dear sir, I have to apologise for calling thus late," said the count; "but the truth is
      that I had a little business which brought me up to town to-day, and in this neighbourhood
      too; and I thought——"  
  "Pray offer no excuses, my dear count," interrupted Mr. Greenwood. "The truth is, I wished
      to see you very particularly—upon a matter not altogether connected with our enterprise——"  
  "Indeed," said the count; "you interest me. Pray explain yourself."  
  "In the first place, allow me to ask whether the ladies are yet acquainted with the
      undertaking in which you have embarked?"  
  "Yes—I acquainted them with the fact this very morning."  
  "And do they approve of it?"  
  "They approve of every thing of which I think well, and disapprove of all that I abhor."  
  "And do they know that I am the projector and principal in the enterprise?" demanded
      Greenwood.  
  "They are acquainted with every thing," answered the count. "Indeed, they have formed of you
      the same exalted opinion which I myself entertain. It would be strange if they had not. We met
      you at the house of Lord Tremordyn; and that nobleman spoke in the highest possible terms of
      you. But what connection exists between all those questions which you have put to me, and the
      matter concerning which you desired to see me?"  
  "I am not sure that I ought to explain myself at present, nor to   you   in the first
      instance," was the answer, delivered with some embarrassment of manner: "at all events I
      should wish you to know a little more of me, and to have some reason to thank me for the
      little service which I shall have the means of rendering you, in enabling you to treble your
      capital."  
  The count appeared mystified; and Mr. Greenwood continued:—  
  "I had the pleasure of seeing the amiable countess and her lovely daughter many times last
      summer at the house of Lord Tremordyn; and no one could know the Signora Isabella without
      being forcibly struck by her personal and mental qualifications. To render myself agreeable to
      Miss Isabella would be the height of my earthly happiness. You will pardon my presumption;
      but——"  
  Mr. Greenwood ceased, and looked at the count to ascertain the effect which his words had
      produced.  
  The honourable and open-hearted Italian was not averse to this proposition. He considered
      his own affairs and prospects in Castelcicala to be so desperate that he was bound to make the
      best provision he could for his daughter in a free, enlightened, and hospitable nation. Mr.
      Greenwood was good looking, moving in the best society, well spoken of by a peer of the realm
      (who, by the way, merely judged of Greenwood's character by the punctuality with which he paid
      his gambling debts), and evidently immensely rich;—his manners were elegant, and his taste
      refined;—and, in a word, he might be called a most eligible suitor for the hand of the count's
      daughter. Not being over-well skilled in affairs of the heart himself, the count had not
      noticed the attachment which decidedly existed between Isabella and Richard Markham; and it
      never for a moment struck him that his daughter might manifest the most powerful repugnance to
      Mr. Greenwood.  
  "I have no doubt," said he, after a long pause, "that Isabella will feel highly flattered by
      your good opinion of her. Indeed, I shall inform her without delay of the manner in which you
      have expressed yourself."  
  "My dear sir," interrupted Greenwood hastily, "in the name of heaven tell the signora
      nothing at all about our present conversation. Her delicacy would be offended. Rather give me
      an opportunity of making myself better known to your daughter."  
  "I understand you. Come and pass a week or two with us at Richmond. We have not a soul
      staying with us at the present moment, Mr. Markham, who was our last guest, having returned to
      his own abode about ten days ago."  
  "This is a busy time with me," began Mr. Greenwood; "and I could scarcely spare a week with
      justice to yourself and my own interests——"  
  "True," interrupted the count. "I will bring the ladies up to town at the beginning of the
      new year. We have a very pressing invitation from the Tremordyns, and I will avail myself of
      it."  
  Mr. Greenwood expressed his gratitude to the count for the favour which his suit thus
      received; and in a few minutes the Italian noble took his leave, more than ever convinced of
      the honour, wealth, and business-like habits of Mr. Greenwood.  
  "There," said the man of the world, as he once more seated himself at the table in the
      dining-room, where he had left the baronet and Chichester, "I have not passed the last hour
      unprofitably. I have not only demanded the hand of the count's lovely daughter, but have also
      persuaded the count to pay a few weeks' visit to your father-in-law, Lord Tremordyn," he
      added, addressing Sir Rupert.  
  "And what good do you propose by the latter arrangement?" demanded the baronet.  
  "I shall get the count's family at a house which Richard Markham stands no chance of
      visiting: for even if the count asked him to call upon him there, Markham would refuse,
      because he is sure to have read or heard that you, Sir Rupert, have married Lady Cecilia
      Huntingfield, and he would be afraid of meeting   you   at Lord Tremordyn's
      residence."  
  "And why should you be so anxious to separate the count from Markham, since Chichester and I
      are not to be in the Steam-packet concern?"  
  "Because I myself could not, for certain reasons, visit the count's family if I stood the
      chance of meeting that same Richard Markham."  
    
  
  CHAPTER XLII. "THE DARK HOUSE."  
  MARKHAM did not forget his appointment with the Resurrection Man. Having obtained the
      necessary sum from his solicitor, he determined to sacrifice it in propitiating a miscreant
      who possessed the power of wounding him in a tender and almost vital point. Accordingly we
      find him, on the evening agreed upon, threading his way on foot amidst the maze of narrow
      streets and crooked alleys which lie in the immediate neighbourhood of Spitalfields
      Church.  
  There is not probably in all London—not even in Saint Giles's nor the Mint—so great an
      amount of squalid misery and fearful crime huddled together, as in the joint districts of
      Spitalfields and Bethnal Green. Between Shoreditch Church and Wentworth Street the most
      intense pangs of poverty, the most profligate morals, and the most odious crimes, rage with
      the fury of a pestilence.  
  Entire streets that are nought but sinks of misery and vice,—dark courts, fœtid with puddles
      of black slimy water,—alleys, blocked up with heaps of filth, and nauseating with unwholesome
      odours, constitute, with but little variety, the vast district of which we are speaking.  
  The Eastern Counties' Railway intersects Spitalfields and Bethnal Green. The traveller upon
      this line may catch, from the windows of the carriage in which he journeys, a hasty, but alas!
      too comprehensive glance of the wretchedness and squalor of that portion of London. He may
      actually obtain a view of the interior and domestic misery peculiar to the neighbourhood;—he
      may penetrate, with his eyes, into the secrets of those abodes of sorrow, vice, and
      destitution. In summer time the poor always have their windows open, and thus the hideous
      poverty of their rooms can be readily descried from the summit of the arches on which the
      railroad is constructed.  
  And in those rooms may be seen women half naked,—some employed in washing the few rags which
      they possess,—others ironing the linen of a more wealthy neighbour,—a few preparing the sorry
      meal,—and numbers scolding, swearing, and quarrelling. At many of the windows, men out of
      work, with matted hair, black beards, and dressed only in filthy shirts and ragged
      trousers,—lounge all the day long, smoking. From not a few of the open casements hang tattered
      garments to dry in the sun. Around the doors children, unwashed, uncombed, shoeless, dirty,
      and uncared for—throng in numbers,—a rising generation of thieves and vagabonds.  
  In the districts of Spitalfields and Bethnal Green the police are but little particular with
      regard to street-stalls. These portable shops are therefore great in number and in nuisance.
      Fish, fresh and fried,—oysters, sweet-stuff, vegetables, fruit, cheap publications,
      sop-in-the-pan, shrimps and periwinkles, hair-combs, baked potatoes, liver and lights, curds
      and whey, sheep's heads, haddocks and red-herrings, are the principal comestibles which find
      vendors and purchasers in the public street. The public-houses and the pawnbrokers also drive
      an excellent trade in that huge section of London.  
  In a former chapter we have described the region of Saffron Hill: all the streets and courts
      of that locality are safe and secure when compared with many in Bethnal Green and
      Spitalfields. There are lanes and alleys between Shoreditch and Church Street, and in the
      immediate neighbourhood of the Railway east of Brick Lane, through which a well-dressed person
      would not wander with a gold chain round his neck, at night, were he prudent.  
  Leading from the neighbourhood of Church Street up into the Hackney Road, is a sinuous
      thoroughfare, composed of Tyssen Street, Turk Street, Virginia Street, and the Bird-cage Walk;
      and in the vicinity of these narrow and perilous ways are the Wellington Road (bordered by a
      ditch of black mud), and several vile streets, inhabited by the very lowest of the low, the
      most filthy of the squalid, and the most profligate of the immoral.  
  We defy any city upon the face of the earth to produce a district equal in vice, dirt,
      penury, and fear-inspiring dens, to these which we are now describing.  
  The   Dark House   was a tavern of the lowest description in Brick Lane, a little north
      of the spot where the railway now intersects the street. The parlour of the   Dark
       House   was dirty and repulsive in all respects; the gas-lights formed two enormous black
      patches upon the ceiling; the tables were occupied by ill-looking men, whose principal
      articles of consumption were tobacco and malt liquor, and the atmosphere was filled with a
      dense volume of smoke. Markham was ashamed to be seen in such a place and in such society; but
      he consoled himself with the idea that neither he nor his business was known to those present;
      and as very little notice was taken of him as he proceeded to seat himself in the most retired
      and obscure corner, he speedily divested himself of the momentary embarrassment which had
      seized upon him.  
  Having satisfied himself by a glance that the Resurrection Man was not there, Richard
      ordered a glass of spirits and water, and resolved to await with patience the arrival of the
      extortioner.  
  By degrees he fell into a train of reflections in which he had never been involved before.
      He was about to purchase the silence of a villain who had menaced him with exposure to a
      family whose good opinion he valued. We have said elsewhere that he was a young man of the
      strictest honour, and that he was ever animated with the most scrupulous integrity of purpose.
      He could no longer conceal from himself the fact that he entertained a sincere and deep
      attachment for the Signora Isabella, and he flattered himself that he was not disagreeable to
      her in return. His transient passion for Mrs. Arlington had faded away with reflection, and he
      now comprehended the immense difference between an evanescent flame of that nature,—a flame
      kindled only by animal beauty, and unsustained by moral considerations,—and the pure, chaste,
      and sacred affection he experienced towards the charming Isabella. From the moment of his
      release from confinement, he had never inquired after Diana—much less sought after her; he
      knew not where she was, nor what had become of her, and his heart was totally independent of
      any inclination in her favour. He now asked himself whether he was pursuing an honourable part
      in concealing the antecedent adventures of his life from her whose pure and holy love he was
      so anxious to retain, whose confidence he would not lose for worlds, and whose peace of mind
      he would not for a moment sacrifice to his own passion or interest?  
  He had not satisfactorily answered the question which he had thus put to himself, when he
      was aroused from his reverie by the sound of a voice at the further end of the room, which
      appeared familiar to him.  
   the vulgar companion of Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr. Chichester.  
  But how had the mighty fallen! The charitable gentleman now seemed to require the aid of
      charity himself. His hat, which was originally a gossamer at four-and-nine, was now so fully
      ventilated about the crown, that it would have fetched nothing at a Jews' auction, even though
      George Robins himself had put it up for sale. His coat was out at the elbows, his trousers out
      at the knees, and his shoes out at the toes; he was out of   cash   and out of
         spirits  ; and as he had none of the former, he trusted to the kindness of the
      frequenters of the   Dark House   parlour to supply him with some of the latter, diluted
      with hot water, and rendered more agreeable by means of sugar. Indeed, at the moment when his
      voice fell upon Markham's ear, he was just about to apply his lips to a tumbler of gin-punch
      which a butcher had ordered for his behoof.  
  "Well, Mr. Pocock," (this was Talbot's real name), said the butcher, "how does the world use
      you now?"  
  "Very bad, indeed, Mr. Griskin," was the reply. "For the last three year, come Janivary, I
      havn't known, when I got up in the morning, where the devil I should sleep at night;—and that
      is God Almighty's truth."  
  "I'm sorry to hear your affairs don't mend," said the butcher. "For my part, I'm getting on
      blooming. I was a bankrupt only seven weeks ago."  
  "A strange manner of being successful in business," thought Markham.  
  "But all my goods was seized by the landlord," added the butcher, in a triumphant tone of
      voice; "and so they was saved from the messenger of the Court, when he come down to take
      possession."  
  "Ah! I suppose your bankruptcy has put you all right again," said Pocock. "Nothing like a
      bankruptcy now-a-days—it makes a man's fortune."  
  "Yes—and no going to quod neither. I made a lot of friends of mine creditors, and so I got
      my certificate the wery same day as I passed my second examination; and now I'm as right as a
      trivet. But what ails you, though, old feller, that you can't contrive to get on?"  
  "The fact is," said Pocock, sipping his gin-and-water, "I was led into bad company about
      three or four years ago, and I don't care before who I say it, or who knows what infernal
      scrapes I was partly the means of getting a nice young fellow into."  
  "I suppose you fell in with flash company?" observed the butcher.  
  "I did indeed! I went out of my element—out of my proper sphere, as I may say; and when a
      man does that without the means of keeping in it, he's d——d and done for at once. I fell in
      with a baronet and a swell cove of the name of Chichester, or Winchester, and who after all
      turned out to be the son of old Chichester the pawnbroker down the street here. They made a
      perfect tool of me. I was fed and pampered, and lived on the fat of the land; and then, when
      the scheme fell through, I was trundled off like a hoop of which a charity schoolboy is tired.
      I fell into distress; and though I've met this here baronet and that there Chichester riding
      in their cabs, with tigers behind and horses before, they never so much as said,
       '  Talbot  ,' or '  Pocock, my tulip, here is a quid for you  .'"  
  "Willanous," ejaculated the butcher. "But of what natur' was the scheme you talk of?"  
  "Why, I'll tell you that too. I shall certainly proclaim my own crimes; but I don't hesitate
      to say that I was led away by those two thieves. My name, as you well know, is Bill Pocock,
      and they made me take the name of Talbot. I was brought up as an engraver, and did pretty well
      until some four years ago, when I lost my wife and got drinking, and then every thing went
      wrong. One day I fell in with this Chichester, and he lent me some money. He then began
      telling me how he knew the way of making an immense fortune with very little trouble, and no
      risk or expense to myself."  
  "So far, so good," said the butcher.  
  "I was hard up—I was rendered desperate by the death of my wife, and, to tell the truth, I
      wanted to live an idle life. I had got attached to public-house parlours, and couldn't sit
      down to work with the graver. So I bit at Chichester's proposal, and he introduced me to the
      baronet."  
  "Another glass, Pocock," interrupted the butcher, winking to the other inmates of the
      parlour, who were now all listening with the greatest attention to this narrative—but none
      with more avidity nor with deeper interest than Richard Markham, who sate unperceived by
      Pocock in his obscure corner.  
  "The scheme was certainly a very ingenious one," continued Talbot, "and deserved success. It
      was nothing more nor less than making bank-notes. I was used to engraving plates of that kind;
      and so I undertook the job. I don't care if any one here present goes and informs against me;
      perhaps I should be better off in a prison than out of one. But what goes to my heart—and what
      I can never forget, and shall reproach myself for as long as I live, was the getting of a nice
      young fellow into a scrape, and making him stand Moses for the punishment, as you do, Griskin,
      for the grog."  
  "And who was this young chap?" demanded the butcher.  
  "One Markham. You must recollect his case. He was tried just about this time three years
      ago, and sentenced to two years' imprisonment."  
  "Can't say I recollect."  
  "Well—this Markham was as innocent about the notes, as the child unborn!" added Pocock
      emphatically.  
  "I raly don't see that you need take on so," remarked the butcher, "for after all, you'd
      better let another feller get into trouble than be locked up in lavender yourself."  
  "It was an unfortunate event," said Pocock, shaking his head solemnly, "and nothing has
      prospered with me since. But what vexes me as much as all the rest, is to think of the conduct
      of those two chaps, Chichester and the baronet. They pretended not to know who I was, when I
      one day stopped them in Regent Street, and wanted to borrow a few pounds of them. The baronet
      turns round, and says to his pal, '  Who the devil is that fellow?  ' and Chichester puts
      up his eye-glass, stares at me through it for five minutes, and says, '  My good man, we
       never give alms to people unless they have certificates of good character to show  .'  
  "Perhaps you wasn't over swell in your toggery?" said the butcher.  
  "Why—no: I don't think I was so well dressed then as I am now."  
  "The devil you wasn't! Well then, it ain't no wonder if so be they slighted you; for one
      wouldn't think as how you was titivated off at present to go to the Queen's le-vee."  
  "Come, no joking," exclaimed Pocock, "I have told you my story, and if you think it is a
      good one, and are inclined to do me a service, you can just order in a chop or a steak, for I
      think I could manage to eat a bit."  
   realised a considerable sum by his late bankruptcy, was disposed to be generous:
      "you shall have as good a supper, and as much lush as you can stow away. Here, Dick," he
      cried, addressing himself to the waiter, "run round to my shop, and ask the old 'ooman for a
      nice steak; and then get it fried for me along with some inguns. And, Dick, let's have some
      taturs."  
  The waiter disappeared to execute these orders, and the conversation was then resumed upon
      the former topic.  
  Pocock entered into all the details with which the reader is already acquainted; and Markham
      who had made up his mind how to act, was determined to allow him to disclose spontaneously as
      much as he thought fit, before he should reveal himself. He sate in his obscure corner,
      shading his face with his hands, and affecting to be deeply interested in the columns of the
         Morning Advertiser  , which lay the wrong way upwards before him.  
  The moment Pocock had begun to speak upon matters which so deeply interested him, Richard
      had become an attentive listener, and, as that individual proceeded, and he found within his
      reach a means of establishing his innocence, his brain seemed to be excited with joy—even to
      delirium. His pulse throbbed violently—his heart palpitated audibly. Much as he had loathed
      that den when he first entered it, he would now have fallen down, and kissed its dirty,
      saw-dust covered floor.  
  Hour after hour had passed away; the clock had struck eleven, and still the Resurrection Man
      did not make his appearance.  
  The butcher and Pocock were discussing their supper, and Markham was just thinking of
      accosting the latter, when the door was suddenly opened with great violence, and two persons
      muffled up in pea-coats, carrying enormous sticks, and smoking cigars, precipitated themselves
      into the parlour of the   Dark House  .  
  "D—n me, what a lark!" ejaculated one, flinging himself upon a seat, and laughing heartily:
      "but we're quite safe in here. I know this place; and the policeman lost sight of us, before
      we reached the door."  
  "Upon my honour, I cannot say that I admire frolics of this kind," observed the other; "it
      is really ridiculous to break lamps up at this end of the town. But, my God! what a
      neighbourhood you have brought me into! I couldn't have suspected that there was such a
      district in London."  
  "I told you that you would do good if you would come with me to my father," said the first
      speaker. "The old boy was quite delighted at the idea of a baronet condescending to sup with
      him; and you saw how he shelled out the blunt to me when he had imbibed his third glass of the
      punch."  
  The latter portion of this conversation was uttered in whispers, and the two gentlemen again
      laughed heartily—doubtless because they had succeeded in the business which had that evening
      brought them to the eastern regions of London.  
  In the midst of that second burst of hilarity, Mr. Pocock rose from his seat and advanced
      slowly towards the two new-comers.  
  "Well, gentlemen," he exclaimed, "this is an honour which you do us poor folks in
      Spitalfields. Come—you needn't stare so confounded hard at me. How are you, Chichester? Been
      to see the old gentleman at the sign of the Lombardy Arms—three balls, eh? Two chances to one
      that the things put up the spout will never come down again, eh?"  
  The butcher burst out into a roar of laughter, which was echoed by several other inmates of
      the room.  
  "Who the devil are you?" demanded Chichester, recovering his presence of mind sooner than
      the baronet; for both were astounded at this unexpected and very embarrassing encounter.  
  "Upon my honour, the man must be mistaken," murmured Sir Rupert Harborough.  
  "So far from being mistaken," cried Pocock, "you were the very fellows I was talking about
      just now. Gentlemen," he added, turning towards the people seated at the various tables,
      "these are the two swells that led me into the scrape I told you about just now. And now they
      pretend not to know me!"  
  "What does the fellow mean?" said Chichester, in an impudent tone: "do you know,
      Harborough?"  
  "'Pon my honour, not I!"  
  "Then I will tell you who I am," ejaculated the engraver. "I am the man who forged the
      plates from which the bank-notes were struck, that got poor Richard Markham condemned to two
      years' imprisonment in the Compter; and you know as well as possible that   he   suffered
      for   our   crime."  
  Chichester and the baronet were stupefied by this sudden and unexpected exposure.  
  They knew not what to say or do; and their countenances betrayed their guilt.  
  "Yes, gentlemen," resumed Pocock, growing excited, "these are the men whom some
      extraordinary chance—some providential or devilish design—has brought here this evening to
      confirm all I have told you."  
  "Devil take this impudence!" cried Chichester, now once more recovering his wonted
      self-possession, and determining to brave the accusation out: "my name isn't Chichester—you're
      quite mistaken, my good fellow—I can assure you that you are."  
  "Liar!" cried the engraver, furiously: "I should know you both amongst a million!"  
  "And so should I," calmly observed Markham, now advancing from his obscure corner, and
      appearing in the presence of those who so little expected to see him there.  
  A tremendous sensation now prevailed in the room, and those who were spectators anxiously
      awaited the result of this strange drama.  
  "Yes—there are indeed the villains to whom I am indebted for all the miseries I have
      endured," continued Markham. "But say not that a lucky accident brought   us   all here
      together this night,—think not that a mere chance occasioned the present meeting of the
      deceivers and the deceived:—no; it was the will of the Almighty, to establish the innocence of
      an injured man!"  
  A solemn silence succeeded these words, which were delivered in a tone which produced an
      impression of awe upon all who heard them. Even the depraved and hardened men that were
      present on this occasion, in the parlour of the   Dark House  , gazed with respect upon
      the young man who dared to speak of the Almighty in that den of dissipation.  
  Markham continued after a short pause:—  
  "Were it not that I should be involving in ruin a man who has spontaneously come forward to
      proclaim his own guilt, to declare his repentance, and to assert my innocence—without hope of
      reward from me, and even without knowing that God had sent me hither to overhear every word he
      uttered—were it not that I should be inflicting upon   him    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Well spoken," said Mr. Chichester, perceiving that he was in no danger, and therefore
      assuming an air of bravado.  
  "Upon my honour, I can't comprehend all this," muttered the baronet. "Let us go, my dear
      fellow—I do not admire your Spitalfields' riff-raff."  
  "Yes—go—depart!" cried Markham; "or else I shall not be able to restrain my
      indignation."  
  "They shan't go without a wolloping, however," said the butcher, very coolly taking off his
      apron, and turning up the sleeves of his blue stuff jacket. "I'll take one—who'll tackle the
      other?"  
  "I will," cried a barber's boy, laying aside his pipe, taking a long pull at the porter, and
      then advancing towards the two adventurers with clenched fists.  
  "Stop—stop, I implore you!" ejaculated Markham. "I ask not for such vengeance as this—no
      violence, I beseech you."  
  "Let's give it 'em in true John Bull style, and knock all that cursed dandy nonsense out of
      'em," cried the butcher; and before Richard could interfere farther, he felled the baronet
      with one blow of his tremendous fist.  
  The barber forthwith pitched into the fashionable Mr. Chichester, who struggled in vain to
      defend himself. The baronet rose; and the butcher instantly took his head "into chancery," and
      pummelled him to his heart's content.  
  As soon as Chichester and Sir Rupert were so severely thrashed that they were covered all
      over with bruises, and could scarcely stand upon their legs, the butcher and the barber kicked
      them into the open air, amidst the shouts and acclamations of all the inmates of the   Dark
       House   parlour.  
  When order was once more restored, Markham addressed himself to the two champions who had
      avenged him in their own peculiar style, and not only thanked them for their well-meant though
      mistaken kindness, but also gave them munificent proofs of his bounty.  
  "And now," said Richard, turning towards Pocock, "are you willing to sign a declaration of
      my innocence?"  
  "On condition that the paper shall never be used against me," answered the engraver.  
  "Could I not this moment give you into custody to the police, upon your own confession of
      having forged the plate from which the bank-notes were printed?"  
  "Certainly: I was wrong to make any conditions. You are a man of honour."  
  Markham proceeded to draw up the declaration referred to; and Pocock signed it with a firm
      and steady hand.  
  This ceremony being completed, Richard placed Bank of England notes for fifty pounds in the
      engraver's hand.  
   gratitude and a proof of my forgiveness; and, believe me, I regret that my means
      do not allow me to be more liberal. Endeavour to enter an honest path; and should you ever
      require a friend, do not hesitate to apply to me."  
  Pocock wept tears of gratitude and repentance—the only acknowledgment he could offer for
      this sudden and most welcome aid. His emotions choked his powers of utterance.  
  Markham hurried from the room, and took his departure from the establishment which possessed
      such an ominous name, but which had proved the scene of a great benefit to him that
      evening.  
  He was hurrying up Brick Lane in a northerly direction—that is to say, towards Church
      Street, when he was suddenly stopped by an individual whom he encountered in his way, and who
      carried a large life-preserver in his hand.  
  "I suppose you were tired of waiting for me," said the Resurrection Man—for it was he.  
  "I certainly imagined you would not come to-night," answered Richard.  
  "Well, better late than never. It is fortunate that we met: it will save you another journey
      to-morrow night, you know."  
  "Yes—I am glad that we have met, as my time is now too valuable to waste."  
  "In that case, we can either return to the   Dark House  , which is open all night; or
      you can give me the money in the street. You don't require any receipt, I suppose?"  
  "No: neither will you require to give me any."  
  "So I thought: honour among thieves, eh? Excuse the compliment. But, in the first place,
      have you got the tin?"  
  "I had the whole amount just now, in my pocket, when I first went to the   Dark
      House  ."  
  "Then I suppose it is all there still?"  
  "Not all. I have parted with fifty pounds out of it."  
  "The deuce you have! And how came you to do that?" demanded the Resurrection Man gruffly. "I
      gave you fair warning that I would take nothing less than the entire sum."  
  "I obtained, in a most extraordinary manner, a proof of my innocence; and I think I
      purchased it cheaply at that rate. I would have given all I possessed in the world," added
      Markham, "to procure it."  
  "The devil!" cried the Resurrection Man, who grew uneasy at the cold and indifferent way in
      which Markham spoke. "Well, I suppose I must take what you have got left. You can easily leave
      the remainder for me at the   Dark House  ."  
  "Not a shilling will you now obtain from me," ejaculated Richard firmly; "and I have waited
      to tell you so. I have made up my mind to reveal the entire truth, without reserve, to those
      from whom I was before foolishly and dishonourably anxious to conceal it."  
  "This gammon won't do for me," cried the Resurrection Man. "You want to stall me off; but
      I'm too wide awake. Give me the tin, or I'll start off to-morrow morning to Richmond, and see
      the count upon—  you   know what subject. Before I left that neighbourhood the other day,
      I made all the necessary inquiries about the people of the house which the young lady went
      into."  
  "You may save yourself that trouble also," said Markham; "for I shall reveal all that you
      would unfold. But, in a word, you may do what you choose."  
  "Come now," ejaculated the Resurrection Man, considerably crest-fallen; "assist an old
      companion in difficulties: lend me a hundred or so."  
  "No," returned Richard in a resolute manner; "had you asked me in the first instance to
      assist you, I would have done so willingly;—but you have endeavoured to extort a considerable
      sum of money from me—much more than I could spare; and I should not now be justified in
      yielding to the prayers of a man who has found that his base menaces have failed."  
  "You do not think I would have done what I said?" cried the Resurrection Man.  
  "I believe you to be capable of any villany. But we have already conversed too long. I was
      anxious to show you how a virtuous resolution would enable me to triumph over your base
      designs;—and I have now nothing more to say to you. Our ways lie in different directions, both
      at present and in future. Farewell."  
  With these words Markham continued his way up Brick Lane; but the Resurrection Man was again
      by his side in a moment.  
  "You refuse to assist me?" he muttered in a hoarse and savage tone.  
  "I do. Molest me no further."  
  "You refuse to assist me?" repeated the villain, grinding his teeth with rage: "then you may
      mind the consequences! I will very soon show you that you will bitterly—bitterly repent your
      determination. By God, I will be revenged!"  
  "I shall know how to be upon my guard," said Markham.  
  He then walked rapidly on, without looking behind him.  
  The Resurrection Man stood still for a moment, considering how to act: then, apparently
      struck by a sudden idea, he hastened stealthily after Richard Markham.  
  
  CHAPTER XLIII. THE MUMMY.  
  THE district of Spitalfields and Bethnal Green was totally unknown to Markham. Indeed, his
      visit upon the present occasion was the first he had ever paid to that densely populated and
      miserable region.  
  It was now midnight; and the streets were nearly deserted. The lamps, few and far between,
      only made darkness visible, instead of throwing a useful light upon the intricate maze of
      narrow thoroughfares.  
  Markham's object was to reach Shoreditch as soon as possible; for he knew that opposite the
      church there was a cab-stand where he might procure a vehicle to take him home. Emerging from
      Brick Lane, he crossed Church Street, and struck into that labyrinth of dirty and dangerous
      lanes in the vicinity of Bird-cage Walk, which we alluded to at the commencement of the
      preceding chapter.  
  He soon perceived that he had mistaken his way; and at length found himself floundering
      about in a long narrow street, unpaved, and here and there almost blocked up with heaps of
      putrescent filth. There was not a lamp in this perilous thoroughfare: no moon on high
      irradiated his path;—black night enveloped every thing above and below in total darkness.  
  Once or twice he thought he heard footsteps behind him; and then he stopped, hoping to be
      overtaken by some one of whom he might inquire his way. But either his ears deceived him, or
      else the person whose steps he heard stopped when he did.  
    
  Richard was bewildered; and—to speak truly—he began to be alarmed. He remembered to have
      read of the mysterious disappearance of persons in the east end of the metropolis, and also of
      certain fell deeds of crime which had been lately brought to light in the very district where
      he was now wandering;—and he could not help wishing that he was in some more secure and less
      gloomy region.  
  He was groping his way along, feeling with his hands against the houses to guide him,—now
      knee-deep in some filthy puddle, now stumbling over some heap of slimy dirt, now floundering
      up to his ankles in the mud,—when a heavy and crushing blow fell upon his hat from behind.  
  He staggered and fell against the door of a house. Almost at the same instant that door was
      thrust open, and two powerful arms hurled the prostrate young man down three or four steps
      into a passage. The person who thus ferociously attacked him leapt after him, closing the door
      violently behind him.  
  All this occupied but a couple of seconds; and though Markham was not completely stunned by
      the blow, he was too much stupefied by the suddenness and violence of the assault to cry out.
      To this circumstance he was probably indebted for his life; for the villain who had struck him
      no doubt conceived the blow to have been fatal; and therefore, instead of renewing the attack,
      he strode over Markham and entered a room into which the passage opened.  
  Richard's first idea was to rise and attempt an escape by the front door; but before he had
      time to consider it even for a moment, the murderous ruffian struck a light in the room,
      which, as well as a part of the passage, was immediately illuminated by a powerful glare.  
  Markham had been thrown upon the damp tiles with which the passage was paved, in such a
      manner that his head was close by the door of the room. The man who had assailed him lighted a
      piece of candle in a bright tin shade hanging against the wall; and the reflection produced by
      the metal caused the strong glare that fell so suddenly upon Richard's eyes.  
  Markham was about to start from his prostrate position when the interior of that room was
      thus abruptly revealed to him; but for a few moments the spectacle which met his sight
      paralyzed every limb, and rendered him breathless, speechless, and motionless with horror.  
  Stretched upon a shutter, which three chairs supported, was a corpse—naked, and of that
      blueish or livid colour which denotes the beginning of decomposition!  
  Near this loathsome object was a large tub full of water; and to that part of the ceiling
      immediately above it were affixed two large hooks, to each of which hung thick cords.  
  In one corner of the room were long flexible iron rods, spades, pickaxes, wooden levers,
      coils of thick rope, trowels, saws, hammers, huge chisels, skeleton-keys, &amp;c.  
  But how great was Richard's astonishment when, glancing from the objects just described
      towards the villain who had hurled him into that den of horrors, his eyes were struck by the
      sombre and revolting countenance of the Resurrection Man.  
  He closed his eyes for a moment, as if he could thus banish both thought and danger.  
  "Now, then, Mummy," ejaculated the Resurrection Man; "come and hold this light while I rifle
      the pockets of a new subject."  
  Scarcely had he uttered these words, when a low knock was heard at the front door of the
      house.  
  "D—n the thing!" cried the Resurrection Man, aloud; "here are these fellows come for the
      stiff 'un."  
  These words struck fresh dismay into the soul of Richard Markham; for it instantly occurred
      to him that any friends of the Resurrection Man, who were thus craving admittance, were more
      likely to aid than to frustrate that villain's designs upon the life and property of a
      fellow-creature.  
  "Here, Mummy," cried the Resurrection Man, once more; and, hastily returning into the
      passage, he reiterated his summons at the bottom of a staircase at the further end; "here,
      Mummy, why the hell don't you come down?"  
  "I'm a comin', I'm a comin'," answered a cracked female voice from the top of the staircase;
      and in another moment an old, blear-eyed, shrivelled hag made her appearance.  
  She was so thin, her eyes were so sunken, her skin was so much like dirty parchment, and her
      entire appearance was so horrible and repulsive, that it was impossible to conceive a more
      appropriate and expressive nickname than the one which had been conferred upon her.  
  "Now come, Mummy," said the ruffian, in a hasty whisper; "help me to drag this fellow into
      the back room; there's good pickings here, and the chaps have come for the stiff 'un."  
  Another knock was heard at the door.  
  Markham, well aware that resistance was at present vain, exercised sufficient control over
      himself to remain motionless, with his eyes nearly closed, while the Resurrection Man and the
      Mummy dragged him hastily into the back room.  
  The Mummy turned the key in the lock, while the Resurrection Man hurried to the street door,
      and admitted two men into the front apartment.  
  One was Tom the Cracksman; the other was a rogue of the same stamp, and was known amongst
      his confederates in crime by the name of the Buffer. It was this man's boast that he never
      robbed any one without stripping him to the very skin; and as a person in a state of nudity is
      said to be "in buff," the origin of his pseudonym is easily comprehended.  
  "Well," said the Cracksman, sulkily, "you ain't at all partikler how you keep people at your
      door—you ain't. For twopence, I'd have sported it  target="#ENG18460_N070" [70]   with
      my foot."  
  "Why, the old Mummy was fast asleep," returned the Resurrection Man; "and I was up stairs
      trying to awake her. But I didn't expect you till to-morrow night."  
  "No; and we shouldn't have come either," said the Cracksman, "if there hadn't been thirty
      quids to earn to-night."  
  "The devil there is!" cried the Resurrection Man. "Then you ain't come for the stiff 'un
      to-night?"  
  "No sich a thing; the Sawbones  target="#ENG18460_N071" [71]   that it's for don't
      expect it till to-morrow night; so its no use taking it. But there's t'other Sawbones, which
      lives down by the Middlesex Hospital, will meet us at half-past one at the back of Shoreditch
      church——"  
  "What, to-night!" ejaculated the Resurrection Man.  
  "To-night—in half an hour—and with all the tools," returned the Cracksman.  
  "Work for the inside of the church, he says," added the Buffer. "Thirty quids isn't to be
      sneezed at; that's ten a-piece. I'm blowed if I don't like this here resurrection business
      better than cracking cribs. What do you say, Tom?"  
   when we want a stiff 'un by a certain day, and don't know in which churchyard to
      dive for one, we hit upon the plan of catching 'em alive in the street."  
  "It was my idea, though," exclaimed the Buffer. "Don't you remember when we wanted a stiff
      'un for the wery same Sawbones which we've got to meet presently, we waited for near two hours
      at this house-door, and at last we caught hold of a feller that was walking so comfortable
      along, looking up at the moon?"  
  "And then I thought of holding him with his head downwards in a tub of water," added the
      Cracksman, "till he was drownded. That way don't tell no tales;—no wound on the skin—no pison
      in the stomach; and there ain't too much water inside neither, cos the poor devils don't
      swaller with their heads downwards."  
  "Ah! it was a good idea," said the Buffer; "and now we've reduced it to a reg'lar system.
      Tub of water all ready on the floor—hooks and cords to hold the chaps' feet up to the ceiling;
      and then, my eye! there they hangs, head downwards, jest for all the world like the carcasses
      in the butchers' shops, if they hadn't got their clothes on."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And them we precious soon takes off. But I say, old feller," said the Cracksman, turning to
      the Resurrection Man, who had remained silent during the colloquy between his two companions;
      "what the devil are you thinking of?"  
  "I was thinking," was the answer, "that the Sawbones that you've agreed to meet to-night
      wants some particular body."  
  "He does," said the Cracksman; "and the one he wants is buried in a vault."  
  "Well and good," exclaimed the Resurrection Man; "he is too good a customer to disappoint.
      We must be off at once."  
  The Resurrection Man did not for a moment doubt that Richard Markham had been killed by the
      blow which he had inflicted upon him with his life-preserver; and he therefore did not
      hesitate to undertake the business just proposed by his two confederates. He knew that,
      whatever Richard's pockets might contain, he could rely upon the   honesty   of the
      Mummy, who—horrible to relate—was the miscreant's own mother. Having therefore given a few
      instructions, in a whisper, to the old woman, he prepared to accompany the Cracksman and the
      Buffer.  
  The three worthies provided themselves with some of the long flexible rods and other
      implements before noticed; and the Resurrection Man took from a cupboard two boxes, each of
      about six inches square, and which he gave to his companions to carry. He also concealed the
      tin shade which held the candle, about his person; and, these preliminaries being settled, the
      three men left the house.  
  Let us now return to Richard Markham.  
  The moment he was deposited in the back room, and the door had closed behind the occupants
      of that fearful den, he started up, a prey to the most indescribable feelings of alarm and
      horror.  
  What a lurking hole of enormity—what a haunt of infamy—what a scene of desperate crime—was
      this in which he now found himself! A feculent smell of the decomposing corpse in the next
      room reached his nostrils, and produced a nauseating sensation in his stomach. And that
      corpse—was it the remains of one who had died a natural death, or who had been most foully
      murdered? He dared not answer the question which he had thus put to himself; he feared lest
      the solution of that mystery might prove ominous in respect to his own fate.  
  Oh! for the means of escape! He must fly—he must fly from that horrible sink of crime—from
      that human slaughter-house! But how? the door was locked—and the window was closed with a
      shutter. If he made the slightest noise, the ruffians in the next room would rush in and
      assassinate him!  
  But, hark! those men were talking, and he could overhear all they said. Could it be
      possible? The two who had just come, were going to take the third away with them upon his own
      revolting business! Hope returned to the bosom of the poor young man: he felt that he might
      yet be saved!  
  But—oh, horror! on what topic had the conversation turned? Those men were rejoicing in their
      own infernal inventions to render murder unsuspected. The object of the tub of water, and the
      hooks and cords upon the ceiling, were now explained. The unsuspecting individual who passed
      the door of that accursed dwelling by night was set upon by the murderers, dragged into the
      house, gagged, and suspended by his feet to these hooks, while his head hung downwards in the
      water. And thus he delivered up his last breath; and the wretches kept him there until
      decomposition commenced, that the corpse might not appear too fresh to the surgeon to whom it
      was to be sold!  
  Merciful heavens! could such things be? could atrocities of so appalling a nature be
      perpetrated in a great city, protected by thousands of a well-paid police? Could the voice of
      murder—murder effected with so much safety, cry up to heaven for vengeance through the
      atmosphere of London?  
  At length the three men went out, as before described; and Markham felt an immense weight
      suddenly lifted from off his mind.  
  I'm gone, you can clean out the swell's pockets in the back room. He has got
      about four or five hundred pounds about him—so mind and take care. When you've searched his
      pockets, strip him, and look at his skull. I'm afraid I've fractured it, for my life-preserver
      came down precious heavy upon him; and he never spoke a word. If there's the wound, I must
      bury him to-morrow in the cellar: if not, wash him clean, and I know where to dispose of
      him."  
  It was in obedience to these instructions that the Mummy took a candle in her hand, and
      proceeded to the back-room, as soon as her son and his two companions had left the house.  
  The horrible old woman was not afraid of the dead: her husband had been a resurrection man,
      and her only son followed the same business,—she was therefore too familiar with the sight of
      death in all its most fearful as well as its most interesting shapes to be alarmed at it. The
      revolting spectacle of a corpse putrid with decomposition produced no more impression upon her
      than the pale and beautiful remains of any lovely girl whom death had called early to the
      tomb, and whose form was snatched from its silent couch beneath the sod ere the finger of
      decay had begun its ravages. That hideous old woman considered corpses an article of commerce,
      and handled her wares as a trader does his merchandize. She cared no more for the sickly and
      fetid odour which they sent forth, than the tanner does for the smell of the tan-yard, or the
      scourer for the fumes of his bleaching-liquid.  
  The Mummy entered the back-room, holding a candle in her hand.  
  Markham started forward, and caught her by the wrist.  
  She uttered a sort of growl of savage disappointment, but gave no sign of alarm.  
  "Vile wretch!" exclaimed Richard; "God has at length sent me to discover and expose your
      crimes!"  
  "Don't do me any harm—don't hurt me," said the old woman; "and I will do any thing you want
      of me."  
  "Answer me," cried Markham: "that corpse in the other room——"  
  "Murdered by my son," replied the hag.  
  "And the clothes? where are the clothes? They may contain some papers which may throw a
      light upon the name and residence of your victim."  
  "Follow me—I will show you."  
  The old woman turned and walked slowly out of the room. Markham went after her; for he
      thought that if he could discover who the unfortunate person was that had met his death in
      that accursed dwelling, he might be enabled to relieve his family at least from the horrors of
      suspense, although he should be the bearer of fatal news indeed.  
  The Mummy opened the door of a cupboard formed beneath the staircase, and holding forward
      the light, pointed to some clothes which hung upon a nail inside.  
  "There—take them yourself if you want them," said the old woman; "I won't touch them."  
  With these words she drew back, but still held the candle in such a way as to throw the
      light into the closet.  
  Markham stepped forward to reach the clothes, and, in extending his hand to take them from
      the peg, he advanced one of his feet upon the floor of the closet.  
  A trap-door instantly gave way beneath his foot: he lost his balance, and fell precipitately
      into a subterranean excavation.  
  The trap-door, which moved with a spring, closed by itself above his head, and he heard the
      triumphant cackling laugh of the old hag, as she fastened it with a large iron bolt.  
  The Mummy then went and seated herself by the corpse in the front room; and, while she
      rocked backwards and forwards in her chair, she crooned the following song:—  
  THE BODY-SNATCHER'S SONG.  
  
  In the churchyard the body is laid,  
  There they inter the beautiful maid:  
  "Earth to earth" is the solemn sound!  
  Over the sod where their daughter sleeps,  
  The father prays, and the mother weeps:  
  "Ashes to ashes" echoes around!  
  Come with the axe, and come with the spade;  
  Come where the beautiful virgin's laid:  
  Earth from earth must we take back now!  
  The sod is damp, and the grave is cold:  
  Lay the white corpse on the dark black mould,  
  That the pale moonbeam may kiss its brow!  
  Throw back the earth, and heap up the clay;  
  This cold white corpse we will bear away,  
  Now that the moonlight waxes dim;  
  For the student doth his knife prepare  
  To hack all over this form so fair,  
  And sever the virgin limb from limb!  
  At morn the mother will come to pray  
  Over the grave where her child she lay,  
  And freshest flowers thereon will spread:  
  And on that spot will she kneel and weep,  
  Nor dream that we have disturbed the sleep  
  Of her who lay in that narrow bed.  
  
  We must leave the Mummy singing her horrible staves, and accompany the body-snatchers in
      their proceedings at Shoreditch Church.  
  
  CHAPTER XLIV. THE BODY-SNATCHERS.  
  THE Resurrection Man, the Cracksman, and the Buffer hastened rapidly along the narrow lanes
      and filthy alleys leading towards Shoreditch Church. They threaded their way in silence,
      through the jet-black darkness of the night, and without once hesitating as to the particular
      turnings which they were to follow. Those men were as familiar with that neighbourhood as a
      person can be with the rooms and passages in his own house.  
  At length the body-snatchers reached the low wall surmounted with a high railing which
      encloses Shoreditch churchyard. They were now at the back part of that burial ground, in a
      narrow and deserted street, whose dark and lonely appearance tended to aid their designs upon
      an edifice situated in one of the most populous districts in all London.  
  For some minutes before their arrival an individual, enveloped in a long cloak, was walking
      up and down beneath the shadow of the wall.  
  This was the surgeon, whose thirst after science had called into action the energies of the
      body-snatchers that night.  
  The Cracksman advanced first, and ascertained that the surgeon had already arrived, and that
      the coast was otherwise clear.  
  He then whistled in a low and peculiar manner; and his two confederates came up.  
  "You have got all your tools?" said the surgeon in a hasty whisper.  
  "Every one that we require," answered the Resurrection Man.  
  "For opening a vault inside the church, mind?" added the surgeon, interrogatively.  
  "You show us the vault, sir, and we'll soon have out the body," said the Resurrection
      Man.  
   own carriage will be in this street at three precisely. We shall have plenty of
      time—there's no one stirring till five, and its dark till seven."  
  The surgeon and the body-snatchers then scaled the railing, and in a few moments stood in
      the churchyard.  
  The Resurrection Man addressed himself to his two confederates and the surgeon, and said,
      "Do you lie snug under the wall here while I go forward and see how we must manage the door."
      With these words he crept stealthily along, amidst the tomb-stones, towards the church.  
  The surgeon and the Cracksman seated themselves upon a grave close to the wall; and the
      Buffer threw himself flat upon his stomach, with his ear towards the ground. He remained in
      this position for some minutes, and then uttered a species of low growl as if he were
      answering some signal which caught his ears alone.  
  "The skeleton-keys won't open the side-door, the Resurrection Man says," whispered the
      Buffer, raising his head towards the surgeon and the Cracksman.  
  He then laid his ear close to the ground once more, and resumed his listening posture.  
  In a few minutes he again replied to a signal; and this time his answer was conveyed by
      means of a short sharp whistle.  
  "It appears there is a bolt; and it will take a quarter of an hour to saw through the
      padlock that holds it," observed the Buffer in a whisper.  
  Nearly twenty minutes elapsed after this announcement. The surgeon's teeth chattered with
      the intense cold; and he could not altogether subdue certain feelings of horror at the idea of
      the business which had brought him thither. The almost mute correspondence which those two men
      were enabled to carry on together—the methodical precision with which they performed their
      avocations—and the coolness they exhibited in undertaking a sacrilegious task, made a powerful
      impression upon his mind. He shuddered from head to foot:—his feelings of aversion were the
      same as he would have experienced had a loathsome reptile crawled over his naked flesh.  
  "It's all right now!" suddenly exclaimed the Buffer, rising from the ground. "Come
      along."  
  The surgeon and the Cracksman followed the Buffer to the southern side of the church where
      there was a flight of steps leading up to a side-door in a species of lobby, or lodge. This
      door was open; and the Resurrection Man was standing inside the lodge.  
  As soon as they had all entered the sacred edifice, the door was carefully closed once
      more.  
  We have before said that the night was cold: but the interior of the church was of a chill
      so intense, that an icy feeling appeared to penetrate to the very back-bone. The wind murmured
      down the aisle; and every footstep echoed, like a hollow sound in the distance, throughout the
      spacious pile.  
  "Now, sir," said the Resurrection Man to the surgeon, "it is for you to tell us whereabouts
      we are to begin."  
  The surgeon groped his way towards the communion-table, and at the northern side of the
      railings which surrounded it he stopped short.  
  "I must now be standing," he said, "upon the very stone which you are to remove. You can,
      however, soon ascertain; for the funeral only took place yesterday morning, and the mortar
      must be quite soft."  
  The Resurrection Man stooped down, felt with his hand for the joints of the pavement in that
      particular spot, and thrust his knife between them.  
  "Yes," he said, after a few minutes' silence: "this stone has only been put down a day or
      two. But do you wish, sir, that all traces of our work should disappear?"  
  "Certainly! I would not for the world that the family of the deceased should learn that this
      tomb has been violated. Suspicion would immediately fall upon me; for it would be remembered
      how earnestly I desired to open the body, and how resolutely my request was refused."  
  "We must use a candle, then, presently," said the Resurrection Man; "and that is the most
      dangerous part of the whole proceeding."  
  "It cannot be helped," returned the surgeon, in a decided tone. "The fact that the side-door
      has been opened by unfair means must transpire in a day or two; and search will then be made
      inside the church to ascertain whether those who have been guilty of the sacrilege were
      thieves or resurrection-men. You see, then, how necessary it is that there should remain no
      proofs of the violation of a tomb."  
  "Well and good, sir," said the Resurrection Man. "You command—we obey. Now, then, my mates,
      to work."  
  In a moment the Resurrection Man lighted a piece of candle, and placed it in the tin shade
      before alluded to. The glare which it shed was thereby thrown almost entirely downwards. He
      then carefully, and with surprising rapidity, examined the joints of the large flag-stone
      which was to be removed, and on which no inscription had yet been engraved. He observed the
      manner in which the mortar was laid down, and noticed even the places where it spread a little
      over the adjoining stones: or where it was slightly deficient. This inspection being
      completed, he extinguished the light, and set to work in company with the Cracksman and the
      Buffer.  
  The eyes of the surgeon gradually became accustomed to the obscurity; and he was enabled to
      observe to some extent the proceedings of the body-snatchers.  
  These men commenced by pouring vinegar over the mortar round the stone which they were to
      raise. They then took long clasp-knives, with very thin and flexible blades, from their
      pockets; and inserted them between the joints of the stones. They moved these knives rapidly
      backwards and forwards for a few seconds, so as effectually to loosen the mortar, and
      moistened the interstices several times with the vinegar.  
  This operation being finished, they introduced the thin and pointed end of a lever between
      the end of the stone which they were to raise and the one adjoining it. The Resurrection Man,
      who held the lever, only worked it very gently; but at every fresh effort on his part, the
      Cracksman and the Buffer introduced each a wedge of wood into the space which thus grew larger
      and larger. By these means, had the lever suddenly given way, the stone would not have fallen
      back into its setting. At length it was raised to a sufficient height to admit of its being
      supported by a thick log about three feet in length.  
   a character, that the surgeon felt as if he beheld three demons disinterring a
      doomed one to carry him off to hell!  
  He was aroused from this painful reverie by the Resurrection Man, who said to him, "Come and
      help us remove the stone."  
  The surgeon applied all his strength to this task; and the huge flag-stone was speedily
      moved upon two wooden rollers away from the mouth of the grave.  
  "You are certain that this is the place?" said the Resurrection Man.  
  "As certain as one can be who stood by the grave for a quarter of an hour in day-light, and
      who has to recognise it again in total darkness," answered the surgeon. "Besides, the mortar
      was soft——"  
  "There might have been another burial close by," interrupted the Resurrection Man; "but we
      will soon find out whether you are right or not, sir. Was the coffin a wooden one?"  
  "Yes! an elm coffin, covered with black cloth," replied the surgeon. "I gave the
      instructions for the funeral myself, being the oldest friend of the family."  
  The Resurrection Man took one of the long flexible rods which we have before noticed, and
      thrust it down into the vault. The point penetrated into the lid of a coffin. He drew it back,
      put the point to his tongue, and tasted it.  
  "Yes," he said, smacking his lips, "the coffin in this vault is an elm one, and is covered
      with black cloth."  
  "I thought I could not be wrong," observed the surgeon.  
  The body-snatchers then proceeded to raise the coffin, by means of ropes passed underneath
      it. This was a comparatively easy portion of their task; and in a few moments it was placed
      upon the flag-stones of the church.  
  The Resurrection Man took a chisel and opened the lid with considerable care. He then
      lighted his candle a second time; and the glare fell upon the pale features of the corpse in
      its narrow shell.  
  "This is the right one," said the surgeon, casting a hasty glance upon the face of the dead
      body, which was that of a young girl of about sixteen.  
  The Resurrection Man extinguished the light; and he and his companions proceeded to lift the
      corpse out of the coffin.  
  The polished marble limbs of the deceased were rudely grasped by the sacrilegious hands of
      the body-snatchers; and, having stripped the corpse stark naked, they tied its neck and heels
      together by means of a strong cord. They then thrust it into a large sack made for the
      purpose.  
  The body-snatchers then applied themselves to the restoration of the vault to its original
      appearance.  
  The lid of the coffin was carefully fastened down; and that now tenantless bed was lowered
      into the tomb. The stone was rolled over the mouth of the vault; and one of the small square
      boxes previously alluded to, furnished mortar wherewith to fill up the joints. The
      Resurrection Man lighted his candle a third time, and applied the cement in such a way that
      even the very workman who laid the stone down after the funeral would not have known that it
      had been disturbed. Then, as this mortar was a shade fresher and lighter than that originally
      used, the Resurrection Man scattered over it a thin brown powder, which was furnished by the
      second box brought away from his house on this occasion. Lastly, a light brush was swept over
      the scene of these operations, and the necessary precautions were complete.  
  The clock struck three as the surgeon and the body-snatchers issued from the church,
      carrying the sack containing the corpse between them.  
  They reached the wall at the back of the churchyard, and there deposited their burden, while
      the Cracksman hastened to see if the surgeon's carriage had arrived.  
  In a few minutes he returned to the railing, and said in a low tone, "All right!"  
  The body was lifted over the iron barrier and conveyed to the vehicle.  
  The surgeon counted ten sovereigns into the hands of each of the body-snatchers; and, having
      taken his seat inside the vehicle, close by his strange freight, was whirled rapidly away
      towards his own abode.  
  The three body-snatchers retraced their steps to the house in the vicinity of the Bird-cage
      Walk; and the Cracksman and Buffer, having deposited the implements of their avocation in the
      corner of the front room, took their departure.  
  The moment the Resurrection Man was thus relieved from the observation of his companions, he
      seized the candle and hastened into the back room, where he expected to find the corpse of
      Richard Markham stripped and washed.  
  To his surprise the room was empty.  
  "What the devil has the old fool been up to?" he exclaimed: then, hastening to the foot of
      the stairs, he cried, "Mummy, are you awake?"  
  In a few moments a door on the first floor opened, and the old woman appeared in her night
      gear at the head of the stairs.  
  "Is that you, Tony?" she exclaimed.  
  "Yes! who the hell do you think it could be? But what have you done with the fresh 'un?"  
  "The fresh 'un came alive again——"  
  "Gammon! Where is the money? how much was there? and is his skull fractured?" demanded the
      Resurrection Man.  
  "I tell you that he came to his senses," returned the old hag: "and that he sprung upon me
      like a tiger when I went into the back room after you was gone."  
  "Damnation! what a fool I was not to stick three inches of cold steel into him!" ejaculated
      the Resurrection Man, stamping his foot. "So I suppose he got clear away—money and all?—gone,
      may be, to fetch the traps!"  
  "Don't alarm yourself, Tony," said the old hag, with a horrible cackling laugh; "he's safe
      enough, I'll warrant it!"  
  "Safe! where—where?"  
  "Where his betters have been 'afore him," answered the Mummy.  
  "What!—in the well in the yard?" exclaimed the Resurrection Man, in a state of horrible
      suspense.  
  "No—in the hole under the stairs."  
  "Wretch!—drivelling fool!—idiot that you are!" cried the Resurrection Man in a voice of
      thunder: "you decoyed him into the very place from which he was sure to escape!"  
  "Escape!" exclaimed the Mummy, in a tone of profound alarm.  
  "Yes—escape!" repeated the Resurrection Man. "Did I not tell you a month or more ago that
      the wall between the hole and the saw-pit in the empty house next door had given way!"  
  "No—you never told me! I'll swear you never told me!" cried the old hag, now furious in her
      turn. "You only say so to throw all the blame on me: it's just like you."  
   know that I spoke to you about not using the place any more!"  
  "It's false!" exclaimed the Mummy.  
  "It's true; for I said to you at the time that I must brick up the wall myself some night,
      before any new people take the carpenter's yard, or they might wonder what the devil we could
      want with a place under ground like that; and it would be the means of blowing us!"  
  "It's a lie! you never told me a word about it," persisted the old harridan doggedly.  
  "Perdition take you!" cried the man. "The affair of this cursed Markham will be the ruin of
      us both!"  
  The Resurrection Man still had a hope left: the subterranean pit beneath the stairs was
      deep, and Markham might have been stunned by the fall.  
  He hastened to the trap-door, and raised it. The vivid light of his candle was thrown to the
      very bottom of the pit by means of the bright reflector of tin.  
  The hole was empty.  
  Maddened by disappointment—a prey to the most terrible apprehensions—and uncertain whether
      to flee or remain in his den, the Resurrection Man paced the passage in a state of mind which
      would not have been envied by even a criminal on his way to execution.  
  
  CHAPTER XLV. THE FRUITLESS SEARCH.  
  WHEN Richard Markham was precipitated into the hole beneath the stairs, by the perfidy of
      the Mummy, he fell with his head against a stone, and became insensible.  
  He lay in this manner for upwards of half an hour, when a current of air which blew steadily
      upon his face, revived him; and he awoke to all the horrors of his situation.  
  He had seen and passed through enough that night to unhinge the strongest mind. The secrets
      of the accursed den in a subterranean dungeon of which he now lay,—the atrocious mysteries
      revealed by the conversation of the body-snatchers ere they set out on their expedition to
      Shoreditch Church,—the cold corpse of some unfortunate being most inhumanly murdered, and all
      the paraphernalia of a hideous death, in the front-room of that outpost of hell,—haunted his
      imagination, and worked him up to a pitch of excitement bordering upon frenzy.  
  He felt that if he did not escape from that hole, he should dash his head against the wall,
      or go raving mad.  
  He clenched his fists and struck them against his forehead in an access of despair.  
  And then he endeavoured to reason with himself, and to look the perils that beset him, in
      the face.  
  But he could not remain cool—he could not control his agonising emotions.  
  "O God!" he exclaimed aloud; "what have I done to be thus afflicted? What sin have I
      committed to be thus tortured? Have I not served thee in word and deed to the best of my
      ability? Do I not worship—venerate—adore thee? O God! why wilt thou that I should die thus
      early—and die, too, so cruel a death? Is there not room on earth enough for a worm like me?
      Have I not been sufficiently tried, O my God? and in the hour of my deepest—bitterest anguish,
      did I ever deny thee? Did I repine against thy supreme will when false men encompassed me to
      destroy me in the opinion of the world? Hear me, O God—hear me! and let me not die this
      time;—let me not perish, O Lord, thus miserably!"  
  Such was the fervent, heart-felt prayer which Markham breathed to heaven, in the agony and
      despair of his soul.  
  He extended his arms, with his hands clasped together, in the ardour of his appeal; and they
      encountered an opening in the wall.  
  A ray of hope penetrated to his heart; and when upon further search, he discovered an
      aperture sufficiently wide for him to creep through, he exclaimed, "O Lord! I thank thee, thou
      hast heard my prayer! Pardon—oh! pardon my repinings;—forgive me that I dared to question thy
      sovereign will!"  
  At all risks he determined to pass through the opening—lead whithersoever it might; for he
      knew that he could scarcely be worse off; and he felt a secret influence which prompted him
      thus to act, and for which he could not wholly account.  
  He crept through the hole in the partition-wall, and found himself upon a soft damp
      ground.  
  Every thing was veiled in the blackest obscurity.  
  He groped about with his hands, and stepped cautiously forward, pausing at every pace.  
  Presently his foot encountered what appeared to be a step: to his infinite joy he
      ascertained, in another moment, that he was at the bottom of a flight of stone stairs.  
  He ascended them, and came to a door, which yielded to his touch. He proceeded slowly and
      cautiously along a passage, groping his way with his hands; and, in a few moments he reached
      another door, which opened with a latch.  
  He was now in the open street!  
  Carefully closing the door behind him, he hurried away from that accursed vicinity as if he
      were pursued by blood-hounds.  
  He ran—he ran, reckless of the deep pools of stagnant water, careless of the heaps of thick
      mud through which he passed,—indifferent to the bruises which he sustained against the angles
      of houses, the corners of streets, and the stone-steps of doors,—unmindful of the dangers
      which he dared in threading thus wildly those rugged and uneven thoroughfares amidst the dense
      obscurity which covered the earth.  
  He ran—he ran, a delirium of joy thrilling in his brain, and thanksgiving in his soul; for
      now that he had escaped from the peril which so lately beset him, it appeared to his
      imagination a thousand times more frightful than when it actually impended over him. Oh! he
      was happy—happy—thrice happy, in the enjoyment of liberty, and the security of life once
      more;—and he began to look upon the scenes of that eventful night as an accumulation of
      horrors which could have possibility only in a dream!  
  He ran—he ran, amidst those filthy lanes and foul streets, where a nauseating atmosphere
      prevailed;—but had he been threading a labyrinth of rose-trees, amongst the most delicious
      perfumes, he could not have experienced a more burning—ardent—furious joy! Yes—his delight was
      madness, frenzy! On, on—splashed with mud—floundering through black puddles—knee-deep in
      mire,—on, on he went—reckless which direction he pursued, so long as the rapidity of his pace
      removed him afar from the accursed house that had nearly become his tomb!  
  For an hour did he thus pursue his way.  
  At length he stopped through sheer exhaustion, and seated himself upon the steps of a door
      over which a lamp was flickering.  
   somewhere in the eastern district of the metropolis; but in what precise spot it
      was impossible for him to tell.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  While he was thus lost in vain endeavours to unravel the tangled topographical skein which
      perplexed his imagination, he heard footsteps advancing along the street.  
  By the light of the lamp he soon distinguished a policeman, walking with slow and measured
      steps along his beat.  
  "Will you have the kindness to tell me where I am?" said Richard, accosting the officer: "I
      have lost my way. What neighbourhood is this?"  
  "Ratcliff Highway," answered the policeman: "in the middle of Wapping, you know."  
  "In the midst of Wapping?" ejaculated Markham, in a tone of surprise and vexation.  
  And, truly enough, there he was in the centre of that immense assemblage of dangerous
      streets, cutthroat lanes, and filthy alleys, which swarm with crimps ever ready to entrap the
      reckless and generous-hearted sailor; publicans who farm the unloading of the colliers, and
      compel those whom they employ to take out half their wages in vile adulterated beer; and poor
      half-starved coal-heavers whose existence alternates between crushing toil and killing
      intoxication. It was in this neighbourhood that Richard Markham now was!  
  Heaven alone can tell what tortuous paths and circuitous routes he had been pursuing during
      the hour of his precipitate flight; but his feet must have passed over many miles of ground
      from the instant that he emerged from the murderers' den until he sank exhausted on the steps
      of a house in Ratcliff Highway.  
  He was wet and covered with mud, and very cold. But he suddenly remembered that there was a
      duty which he owed to society—an imperative duty which he dared not neglect. He was impressed
      with the idea that Providence had that night favoured his escape from the jaws of death, in
      order that he might become the means of rooting up a den of horrors.  
  There was not a moment to be lost: the three miscreants, unconscious of peril, had repaired
      to Shoreditch Church to exercise the least terrible portion of their avocations in that sacred
      edifice:—it might yet be time to secure them there!  
  The policeman was still standing near him.  
   the deepest importance to communicate to the police,—I can place them upon the
      scent of three miscreants—three demons in human form——"  
  "And how came you to know about them?" asked the officer.  
  "Oh! it is too long to tell you now—we shall only be wasting time; and the villains may
      escape," cried Richard, in a tone of excitement and with a wildness of manner which induced
      the officer to fancy that his brain was turned.  
  "Well, come along with me," said the policeman; "and you can tell all you know to the
      Superintendent."  
  Markham signified his readiness to accompany the officer; and they proceeded to the
      station-house in the neighbourhood.  
  There Richard was introduced to the Superintendent.  
  "I have this night," said the young man, "escaped from the most fearful perils. I was
      proceeding along a dark, narrow, and dirty street somewhere in the neighbourhood of Shoreditch
      Church, when I was knocked down, and carried into a house where murder—yes, murder," added
      Markham, in a tone of fearful excitement, "seems to be committed At this moment there is a
      corpse—the corpse of some unfortunate man who has been assassinated in a most inhuman
      manner—lying stretched out in that house! I could tell you how the miscreants who frequent
      that den dispose of their victims,—how they pounce upon those who pass their door, and drag
      them into that human slaughter-house,—and how they make away with them;—I could tell you
      horrors which would make your hair stand on end;—but we should lose time; for you may yet
      capture the three wretches whose crimes have been this night so providentially revealed to
      me!"  
  "And where can we capture these men?" inquired the Superintendent, surveying Markham from
      head to foot in a strange manner.  
  "They are at this moment at Shoreditch Church," returned the young man; "they are engaged in
      exhuming a corpse for a surgeon whom they were to meet at half-past one at the back of the
      burial-ground."  
  "And it is now three o'clock," said the Superintendent. "I dare say they have got over their
      business by this time. You had much better sit down here by the fire and rest yourself; and
      when it is daylight some one shall see you home to your friends."  
  "Sit here tranquilly, when justice claims its due!" ejaculated Markham; "impossible! If you
      will not second my endeavours to expose a most appalling system of wholesale murder——"  
  "My dear sir," interrupted the Superintendent, "do compose yourself, and get such horrid
      thoughts out of your head. Come—be reasonable. This is London, you know—and it is impossible
      that the things you have described could be committed in so populous a city."  
  "I tell you that every word I have uttered is the strict truth," cried Markham
      emphatically.  
  "And how came you to escape from such a place?" demanded the Superintendent.  
  "The villain who attacked me thought me dead—he fancied that I was killed by the blow; but
      it had only stunned me for a few moments——"  
  "Just now there were three murderers," whispered one policeman to another: "now there is
      only one. He is as mad as a March-hare."  
  "Then I was decoyed into a deep pit," continued Markham; "and I escaped through an aperture
      opening into another pit, with stone steps to it, in the next house."  
  The two policemen turned round to conceal their inclination to laugh; and the Superintendent
      could scarcely maintain a serious countenance.  
  "And now will you come with me to Shoreditch Church, and capture the villains?" cried
      Markham.  
  "We had better wait till morning. Pray sit down and compose yourself. You are wet and
      covered with mud—you have evidently been walking a great distance."  
  "Oh! now I understand the cause of your hesitation," ejaculated Markham: "you do not believe
      me—you fancy that I am labouring under a delusion. I conjure you not to suffer justice to be
      defeated by that idea! The tale is strange; and I myself, had it been communicated to me as it
      now is to you, should look upon it as improbable. No doubt, too, my appearance is strange; and
      my manner may be excited, and my tone wild;—but, I swear to you by the great God who hears us,
      that I am sane—in the possession of my reason,—although, heaven knows! I have this night
      passed through enough to unhinge the strongest intellects!"  
  "Can you lead us to the house where you allege that these enormities are committed?"
      demanded the Superintendent, moved by the solemnity and rationality with which Markham had
      uttered this last appeal to him.  
  "No, I cannot," was the reply: "I had lost my way amongst those streets with which I was
      totally unacquainted: the night was dark—dark as it is now;—and therefore I could not guide
      you to that den of such black atrocities. But, I repeat the murderers left that house a little
      after one to commit a deed of sacrilege in Shoreditch Church. You say that it is now three:
      perhaps their resurrection-labours are not terminated yet; and you might then capture them in
      the midst of their unholy pursuits."  
  "And if we do not find that Shoreditch Church has been broken open?" said the
      Superintendent; "you will admit——"  
  "Admit that I am mad—that I have deceived you—that I deserve to be consigned to a lunatic
      asylum," exclaimed Markham, in a tone which inspired the Superintendent with confidence.  
  That officer accordingly gave instructions to four constables to accompany Markham to
      Shoreditch Church.  
  The little party proceeded thither with all possible expedition; but the clock struck four
      just as they reached the point of destination.  
  They hastily scaled the railings around the burial-ground, and proceeded to the very door
      from which the body-snatchers had emerged an hour previously.  
  One of the policemen tried the door; and it immediately yielded to his touch. At the same
      moment his foot struck against something upon the top step. He picked it up:—it was a padlock
      with the semicircular bolt sawed through.  
  The policemen and Markham entered the church; and the former commenced a strict search by
      means of their bull's-eye lanterns.  
  "There's no doubt that the gentleman was right, and all he said was true," observed one of
      the officers; "but the birds have flown—that's clear."  
  "Well—they must have done their work pretty cleverly if they haven't left a trace," said
      another.  
    
  "Well, if we don't find out which vault they have opened, it's no matter. We have seen
      enough to convince us that you were right, sir, in all you told us."  
  "And as the body-snatchers are not here," added another police-officer, "we had better get
      back as quick as we can and report the church's having been broke open to our
      Superintendent."  
  "And I will return with you," said Markham; "for when it is light I may perhaps be enabled
      to conduct you to within a short distance of the street—even if not into the very street
      itself—where the den is situated which those monsters frequent or inhabit."  
  The officers and Richard accordingly returned to the station-house whence they came; and as
      soon as the Superintendent heard that the church had really been broken open, he apologised to
      Markham for his former incredulity.  
  "You will, however, admit, sir," said this functionary, "that your narrative was calculated
      to excite strange suspicions relative to the condition of the intellects of the person who
      told it."  
  "I presume you fancied that I had escaped from a madhouse?" observed Markham.  
  "To tell you the truth, I did," answered the Superintendent: "you were in such a dreadful
      condition! And that reminds me that you are all wet and covered with mud: please to step into
      my private room, and you will find every thing necessary to make you clean and
      comfortable."  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  Day dawned shortly after seven; and at that time might be seen Richard Markham, accompanied
      by an officer in plain clothes, and followed by others at a distance, threading the streets
      and alleys in the neighbourhood of the Bird-cage Walk.  
  The sun rose upon that labyrinth of close, narrow, and wretched thoroughfares, and
      irradiated those sinks of misery and crime as well as the regal palace and the lordly mansion
      at the opposite end of London.  
  But the search after the house in which Markham had witnessed such horrors and endured such
      intense mental agony on the preceding night, was as vain and fruitless as if its existence
      were but a dream.  
  There was not a street which Markham could remember having passed through; there was not a
      house to which even his suspicions attached.  
  And yet, may be, he and his official companions proceeded up the very street, and went by
      the door of the very house, which they sought.  
  After a useless search throughout that neighbourhood for nearly four hours, Markham declared
      that he was completely at fault.  
  The police accordingly abandoned any further proceedings on that occasion. It was however
      agreed between them and Markham that the strictest secresy should be preserved relative to the
      entire business, in order that the measures to be subsequently adopted with a view to discover
      the den of the murderers, might not be defeated by the tattle of busy tongues.  
  
  CHAPTER XLVI. RICHARD AND ISABELLA.  
  RICHARD Markham had determined to lose no time in revealing to Count Alteroni those
      adventures which had rendered him an inmate of the Giltspur Street Compter for two years.  
  And yet it was hard to dare the destruction of the bright visions which had dawned upon him
      in respect to the Signora Isabella: it was cruel to dash away from his lips the only cup of
      enjoyment which he had tasted for a long time.  
  He knew not how the count would receive such a narrative as he had to tell. Doubtless it
      would alarm him: "for society," thought Richard, "was too apt to judge rashly by outward
      appearances." Should the count, however, nobly and generously rise above the prejudices of the
      world, and believe the statement of Markham's innocence, corroborated as it was by the
      document signed by Talbot,   alias   Pocock, much would have been gained by a candid and
      honourable confession. But if the reverse ensued, and the count banished Richard from his
      friendship, the young man felt that he himself would only have performed a melancholy duty,
      and broken asunder of his own accord those bonds which, were he to remain silent, an accident
      might one day snap abruptly and rudely.  
  "I feel happy," said Markham to himself, as he arose in the morning after the day on which
      the fruitless search mentioned in the preceding chapter took place,—"I feel happy even while
      about to consummate a sacrifice which may destroy the most golden of my dreams! The Infinite
      Being has declared that the days of our life shall be marked with sorrow; and they are—as I
      can well testify! But the afflictions to which we are subject are attended with blessed
      antidotes;—moral sources of enjoyment are given to us, as fruits and flowers for the soul; and
      the teachings of interest, as well as the impulses of gratitude, should lead us to consider
      with attention those duties we owe each other, for the sake of the bounties the Almighty
      showers upon us."  
  So reasoned Richard Markham.  
  That evening he arrived at the count's abode near Richmond, a few minutes before dinner.  
  A kind welcome awaited him on the part of the count and countess; and the eyes of Signora
      Isabella expressed the satisfaction she experienced at his return.  
  When Markham was seated with the count after dinner, he determined to commence the
      explanation which he had resolved to give.  
  He was just about to broach the subject, when the count observed, "By the bye, I am happy to
      inform you that I received letters from Greenwood this morning; and he assures me that the
      speculation looks admirably."  
  "I am delighted to hear it," returned Richard. "But the chief object of my present
      visit——"  
  "Was to speak about this Steam Packet business, no doubt," interrupted the count. "Well, if
      you like to take shares in it, it is not too late. But what do you think? I am going to tell
      you a secret. You know that I look upon you as a friend of the family; besides, I am well
      aware that you respect Isabel and love her like a brother——"  
  "What did you say, count?" stammered Markham.  
  "I was going to tell you that Mr. Greenwood—who is immensely rich—has taken a liking to
      Isabella——"  
  "Indeed!"  
  "Yes—and I gave him some little encouragement."  
  "What! without previously ascertaining whether the Signora's feelings are reciprocal?" cried
      Richard.  
  "As for that, my dear Markham, remember that a dutiful daughter knows no will and no
      inclination save those of her parents."  
    
  "It is nevertheless an Italian doctrine," exclaimed the count, somewhat haughtily; "and I
      have no doubt that Isabella will ever recognise the authority of her parents in this as in all
      other matters."  
  As the count uttered these words, he rose and led the way to the drawing-room; and thus
      deprived Markham of that opportunity of making the confession he had intended.  
  Richard was unhappy and dispirited. He perceived that the count was inclined to favour Mr.
      Greenwood's suit; and he now felt how dear Isabella was to him—how profoundly seated was his
      love for the beauteous Italian!  
  Misfortunes never come alone. Richard was destined to receive a crushing blow, although
      innocently inflicted, the moment he entered the drawing-room.  
  The countess was conversing with her daughter upon her own family connections.  
  "Do not let us interrupt your conversation," said the count, as he took his seat upon the
      sofa near his wife.  
  "We were only talking about the Chevalier Guilderstein, whose death was mentioned in
      yesterday's newspaper," observed the countess. "I was saying that I remembered how delighted I
      was when I discovered a few years ago that the chevalier was not related to our family, as he
      had always pretended to be."  
  "And why so?" inquired the count.  
  "Because the father of the chevalier was put to death in Austria for coining—or rather upon
      a charge of coining," answered the countess; "and although his innocence was discovered and
      proclaimed a few years after his death, I should not like to have amongst my ancestors a man
      who had been criminally convicted, however innocent he may in reality have been."  
  "Certainly not," said the count. "I should be very sorry for any one whose character had
      ever been tainted with suspicion, to have the slightest connection with our family."  
  "I cannot say that I agree with you," observed Isabel. "There can be no disgrace attached to
      one who has suffered under a false accusation: on the contrary—such a person is rather
      deserving of our deepest sympathy and——"  
  "Heavens, Mr. Markham!" ejaculated the countess; "are you ill? Bella, dear—ring the bell—get
      Mr. Markham a glass of water——"  
  "It is nothing—nothing, I can assure you," stammered Richard, whose countenance was as pale
      as that of a corpse. "Miss Isabella, do not give yourself any trouble! It was only a sudden
      faintness—a spasm: but it is over now."  
  With these words Markham hurried to the bed-chamber which was always allotted to him when he
      visited the count's residence.  
  All the horrible tortures which man can conceive, harassed him at that moment. He threw
      himself upon his couch—he writhed—he struggled, as if against a serpent which held him in its
      embraces. His eyes seemed as if they were about to start from their sockets; his teeth were
      fast closed—he wrung his hair—he beat his breast—and low moans escaped from his bosom. The
         fiat   of the count had gone forth. He who would claim or aspire to connection with
      his family must be like the wife of Cæsar—beyond all suspicion. It was not enough that such an
      one should be innocent of any crime: he must never have even been accused of one. Such was the
      disposition of the count—elicited by an accident, and unexpectedly; and Markham could now
      divine the nature of the treatment which he would be likely to experience, were he to reveal
      his misfortunes to a nobleman who entertained such punctilious and extremely scrupulous
      notions!  
  "But I was mad to imagine that Isabella would ever become mine," thought Markham within
      himself, as soon as he became somewhat more tranquillised. "It was folly—supreme folly—rank,
      idiotic, inconceivable folly, in me to have cherished a hope which could never be realised!
      All that now remains for me to do, is to abandon myself to my adverse fate—to attempt no more
      struggles against the destinies that await me,—to leave this house without delay—to return
      home, and bury myself in a solitude from which no persuasions nor attractions shall henceforth
      induce me to emerge! Would that I could leave this house this very evening;—but appearances
      compel me to remain at least until to-morrow! I must endeavour to assume that ease of
      manner—that friendly confidence, which is reciprocal here:—for a few hours I must consent to
      act the hypocrite; and to-morrow—to-morrow, I shall be relieved from that dread necessity,—I
      shall be compelled to bid adieu to Isabella for ever! No avowal of my past sufferings is now
      required—since I shall to-morrow leave this hospitable mansion, never to return!"  
  A flood of tears relieved the unfortunate young man; and he descended once more to the
      drawing-room—very pale, but as calm and tranquil as usual. Isabella glanced towards him from
      time to time with evident anxiety; and, in spite of all his endeavours to appear cheerful and
      at his ease, he was embarrassed, cool, and reserved. Isabella was wounded and mortified by his
      conduct:—she attempted to rally him, and to ascertain whether he was really chilling in his
      manners on purpose, or only melancholy against his will: but she received frigid and laconic
      replies, which annoyed and disheartened the poor girl to such an extent that she could
      scarcely refrain from tears. Markham felt that, as an honourable man, he could no longer
      aspire to the hand of the signora, after the expression of opinion accidentally conveyed to
      him by the count and countess; and he therefore forbore from any attempt to render himself
      agreeable, or to afford the slightest testimony of his passion. Acting with these views, and
      endeavouring to seem only properly polite, he fell into the opposite extreme, and grew cold
      and reserved. The count and countess imagined that he was unwell, and were not therefore
      annoyed by his conduct;—but poor Isabella, who was deeply attached to him, set down his
      behaviour to indifference. This idea on her part was confirmed, when Markham, in the course of
      conversation, intimated his intention of returning home on the following day.  
  "Return home! and what for?" ejaculated the count. "You have no society there, and here you
      have some—unamusing and tedious though it may be."  
  "Never did I pass a happier period of my existence than that which I have spent in your
      hospitable abode," said Richard.  
  "Then remain with us at least ten days or a fortnight," cried the count. "We shall then be
      visiting London ourselves, for we have promised to pass a few weeks with Lord and Lady
      Tremordyn."  
  "Lord Tremordyn!" exclaimed Richard.  
  "Yes—do you know him?"  
  "Only by name. But did not his daughter marry Sir Rupert Harborough?" said Markham,
      shuddering as he pronounced the abhorred name.  
   away from his home. He has, moreover, expended all the fortune she brought him,
      and is again, I understand, deeply involved in debt."  
  "Poor Lady Cecilia!" ejaculated Isabella. "She is deeply to be pitied!"  
  "But to return to this sudden resolution of yours to depart to-morrow," said the count.  
  "Which resolution is very suddenly taken," added the signora, affecting to be engaged in
      contemplating a book of prints which lay upon the table before her, while her beautiful
      countenance was suffused with a deep blush.  
  "My resolution is sudden, certainly," observed Richard. "Circumstances over which I have no
      control, and which it would be useless to communicate to you, frequently compel me to adopt
      sudden resolutions, and act up to them. Be assured, however, that the memory of your kindness
      will always be dear to me."  
  "You speak as if we were never to meet again," exclaimed the count.  
  "We cannot dispose of events in this world according to our own will," said Markham,
      emphatically. "Would to God we could!"  
  "But there are certain circumstances in which we seem to be free agents," said Isabella,
      still holding down her head; "and remaining in one place, or going to another, appears to be
      amongst those actions which depend upon our own volition."  
  At this moment a servant entered the room and informed the count that the private secretary
      of the envoy of the Grand Duke of Castelcicala to the English court desired to speak with him
      in another apartment.  
  "Oh! I am interested in this," exclaimed the countess; and, upon a signal of approval on the
      part of her husband, she accompanied him to the room where the secretary was waiting.  
  Markham was now alone with Isabella.  
  This was a probable occurrence which he had dreaded all that evening. He felt himself
      cruelly embarrassed in her presence; and the silence which prevailed between them was awkward
      to a degree.  
  At length the signora herself spoke.  
  "It appears that you are determined to leave us, Mr. Markham?" she said, without glancing
      towards him, and in a tone which she endeavoured to render as cool and indifferent as
      possible.  
  "I feel that I have been too long here already, signora," answered Richard, scarcely knowing
      what reply to make.  
  "Do you mean to tax us with inattention to your comfort, Mr. Markham?"  
  "God forbid, signora! In the name of heaven do not entertain such an idea!"  
  "Mr. Markham has been treated as well as our humble means would admit; and he leaves us with
      an abruptness which justifies us in entertaining fears that he is not comfortable."  
  "How can I convince you of the injustice of your suspicions?" ejaculated Markham. "You would
      not wantonly wound my feelings, Miss Isabella, by a belief which is totally unfounded? No!
      that is not the cause of my departure. My own happiness—my own honour—every thing commands me
      to quit a spot where—where I shall, nevertheless, leave so many reminiscences of joy and
      tranquil felicity behind me! I dare not explain myself farther at present; perhaps
         never   will you know the cause—but, pardon me, signora—I am wandering—I know not what
      I say!"  
  "Pray compose yourself, Mr. Markham," said Isabella, now raising her head from the book, and
      glancing towards him.  
  "Compose myself, Isabella—signora, I mean," he exclaimed: "  that   is impossible! Oh!
      if you knew   all  , you would pity me! But I dare not now reveal to you what I wish. A
      word which this day dropped from your father's lips has banished all hope from my mind. Now I
      am wandering again! In the name of heaven, take no notice of what I say; I am mad—I am
      raving!"  
  "And what was it that my father said to annoy you?" inquired Isabella timidly.  
  "Oh! nothing—nothing purposely," answered Markham. "He himself was unaware that he fired the
      arrow from his bow."  
  "Am I unworthy of your confidence in this instance?" asked Isabella; "and may I not be made
      acquainted with the nature of the annoyance which my father has thus unintentionally caused
      you to experience?"  
  "Oh! why should I repeat words which would only lead to a revelation of what it is now
      useless to reveal. Your father and mother both delivered the same sentiment—a sentiment that
      destroys all hope. But, oh! you cannot understand the cause of my anxiety—my grief—my
      disappointment!"  
  "And why not entrust me with that cause? I could sympathise with you as a friend."  
  "As a friend! Alas, Isabella, is it useless for me now to deplore the visions which I had
      conjured up, and which have been so cruelly destroyed? You yourself know not what is in store
      for you—what plans your father may have formed concerning you!"  
  "And are you acquainted with those plans?" asked the beauteous Italian, in a tone of voice
      rendered almost inaudible by a variety of emotions—for the heart of that innocent and charming
      being fluttered like a bird in the net of the fowler.  
   existence; and, behold! like all the former hopes and aspirations of my life,
      this one is also suddenly destroyed!"  
  "How know you that it is destroyed?" inquired Isabella, casting down her eyes.  
  "Oh! I am unworthy of you, Isabella—I do not deserve you; and yet it was to your hand that I
      aspired;—you were the star that was to irradiate the remainder of my existence! Oh! I could
      weep—I could weep, Isabella, when I think of what I might have been, and what I am!"  
  "You say that you aspired to my hand," murmured the lovely Italian maiden, casting down her
      large dark eyes and blushing deeply; "you did me honour!"  
  "Silence, Isabella—silence!" interrupted Richard. "I dare not now hear the words of hope
      from   your   lips! But I love thee—I love thee—God only knows how sincerely I love
      thee!"  
  "And shall I conceal my own feelings with regard to you, Richard?" said Isabella,
      approaching him and laying her delicate and beautifully modelled hand lightly upon his
      wrist.  
  "She loves me in return—she loves me!" ejaculated Markham, half wild with mingled joy and
      apprehensions;—and, yielding to an impulse which no mortal under such circumstances could have
      conquered, he caught her in his arms.  
  He kissed her pure and chaste brow—he felt her fragrant breath upon his cheek—her hair
      commingled with his own—and he murmured the words, "You love me?"  
  A gentle voice breathed an affirmative in his ear; and he pressed his lips to hers to ratify
      that covenant of two fond hearts.  
  Suddenly he recollected that Count Alteroni had declared that no one against whom there was
      even a suspicion of crime should ever form a connection with his family. Markham's high sense
      of honour told him in a moment that he had no right to secure the affections of a confiding
      and gentle girl whose father would never yield an assent to their union: his brain, already
      excited, now became inflamed almost to madness;—he abruptly turned aside from her who had just
      avowed her attachment to him,—he muttered some incoherent words which she did not comprehend,
      and rushed out of the room.  
  He hurried to the garden at the back of the house, and walked rapidly up and down a shady
      avenue of trees which ran along the wall that bounded the enclosure on the side of the public
      road.  
  By degrees he grew calm and relaxed the speed of his pace. He then fell into a long and
      profound meditation upon the occurrences of the last half hour.  
  He was beloved by Isabella, it was true;—but never might he aspire to her hand;—never could
      it be accorded to him to lead her to the altar where their attachment might be ratified and
         his   happiness confirmed! An inseparable barrier seemed to oppose itself to his
      wishes; and he felt that no alternative remained to him but to put his former resolution into
      force, and take his departure homewards on the ensuing morning.  
  Thus was it that he now reasoned.  
  The moon shone brightly; and the heavens were studded with stars.  
  As Markham was about to turn for the twentieth time at that end of the avenue which was the
      more remote from the house, the beams of the moon suddenly disclosed to him a human face
      peering over the wall at him.  
  He started, and was about to utter an exclamation of alarm, when a well-known voice fell
      upon his ears.  
  "Hush!" was the word first spoken; "I have just one question to ask you, and then one thing
      to tell you; and the last will just depend upon the first."  
  "Wretch—miscreant—murderer!" exclaimed Richard; "nothing shall now prevent me from securing
      you on the behalf of justice."  
  "Fool!" coolly returned the Resurrection Man—for it was he; "who can catch me in the
      darkness and the open fields?"  
  "True!" cried Markham, stamping his foot with vexation. "But God grant that the day of
      retribution may come!"  
  "Come, come—none of this nonsense, my dear boy," said the Resurrection Man, with diabolical
      irony. "Now, answer me—will you give me a cool hundred and fifty? If not, then I will get swag
      in spite of you."  
  "Why do you thus molest and persecute me? I would sooner handle the most venomous serpent,
      than enter into a compromise with a fiend like you!"  
  "Then beware of the consequences!"  
  The moon shone full upon the cadaverous and unearthly countenance of the Resurrection Man,
      and revealed the expression of ferocious rage which it wore as he uttered these words. That
      vile and foreboding face then suddenly disappeared behind the wall.  
  "Who are you talking to, Markham?" cried the voice of the count, who was now advancing down
      the avenue.  
  "Talking to?" repeated Richard, alarmed and confused.  
  "Yes—I heard your voice, and another answering you," said the count.  
  "It was a man in the road," answered Markham.  
  "I missed you from the drawing-room on my return; and Bella said she thought you were
      unwell, and had gone to walk in the garden for the fresh air. The news I have received from
      Castelcicala, through the Envoy's secretary, are by no means favourable to my hopes of a
      speedy return to my native land. You therefore see that I have done well to lay out my capital
      in this. But we will not discuss matters of business now; for there is company up stairs, and
      we must join them. Who do you think have just made their appearance?"  
  "Mr. Armstrong and other friends?" said Markham inquiringly.  
  "No—Armstrong is on the Continent. The visitors are Sir Cherry Bounce and Captain Smilax
      Dapper; and I am by no means pleased with their company. However, my house   must  
      always remain open to them in consequence of the services rendered to me by their deceased
      relative."  
  Markham accompanied the count back to the drawing-room, where Captain Smilax Dapper had
      seated himself next to the signora; and Sir Cherry Bounce was endeavouring to divert the
      countess with an account of their journey that evening from London. They both coloured deeply
      and bowed very politely when Richard entered the apartment.  
  "Well, ath I wath thaying," continued Sir Cherry, "one of the twatheth bwoke at the bottom
      of the hill, and the hortheth took to fwight. Thmilakth thwore like a twooper; but nothing
      could thwop the thaithe till it wolled thlap down into a dwy dith. Dapper then woared like a
      bull; and I——"  
    
  "Oh! naughty Dapper to thay that I cwied! That really ith too cwuel. Well, we got the
      thaithe lifted out of the dith, and the twathe mended."  
  "You are the heroes of an adventure," said the count.  
  "I intend to put it into verse, strike me ugly if I don't!" cried the young officer; "and
      perhaps the signora will allow me to copy it into her   Album  ?"  
  "Oh! I must read it first," said Isabella, laughing. "But since you speak of my
         Album  , I must show you the additions I have received to its treasures."  
  "This is really a beautiful landscape," observed Captain Dapper, as he turned over the
      leaves of the book which the beautiful Italian presented to him. "The water flowing over the
      wheel of the mill is quite natural, strike me! And—may I never know what fair woman's smiles
      are again, if those trees don't seem actually to be growing out of the paper!"  
  "Thuperb?" ejaculated Sir Cherry Bounce. "The wiver litewally wollth along in the picthure.
      The cowth and the theepe are walking in the gween fieldth. Pway who might have been the
      artitht of thith mathleth producthion?"  
  "That is a secret," said the signora. "And now read these lines."  
  "Read them yourself, Bella," said the count. "No one can do justice to them but you."  
  Isabella accordingly read the following stanzas in a tone of voice that added a new charm to
      the words themselves:—  
  
    LONDON.    
  'Twas midnight—and the beam of Cynthia shone  
  In company with many a lovely star,  
  Steeping in silver the huge Babylon  
  Whose countless habitations stretch afar,  
  Plain, valley, hill, and river's bank upon,  
  And in whose mighty heart all interests jar!—  
  O sovereign city of a thousand towers,  
  What vice is cradled in thy princely bowers!  
  If thou would'st view fair London-town aright,  
  Survey her from the bridge of Waterloo;  
  And let the hour be at the morning's light,  
  When the sun's earliest rays have struggled through  
  The star-bespangled curtain of the night,  
  And when Aurora's locks are moist with dew:  
  Then take thy stand upon that bridge, and see  
  London awake in all her majesty!  
  Then do her greatest features seem to crowd  
  Down to the river's brink:—then does she raise  
  From off her brow the everlasting cloud,  
  (Thus with her veil the coquette archly plays)  
  And for a moment shows her features, proud  
  To catch the Rembrandt light of the sun's rays:—  
  Then may the eye of the beholder dwell  
  On steeple, column, dome, and pinnacle.  
  Yes—he may reckon temple, mart, and tower—  
  The old historic sites—the halls of kings—  
  The seats of art—the fortalice of power—  
  The ships that waft our commerce on their wings—  
  All these commingle in that dawning hour;  
  And each into one common focus brings  
  Some separate moral of life's scenes so true,  
  As all those objects form one point of view!  
  The ceaseless hum of the huge Babylon  
  Has known no silence for a thousand years;  
  Still does her tide of human life flow on,  
  Still is she racked with sorrows, hopes, and fears;  
  Still the sun sets, still morning dawns upon  
  Hearts full of anguish, eye-balls dimmed with tears:—  
  Still do the millions toil to bless the few—  
  And hideous Want stalks all her pathways through!  
  
  "Beautiful—very beautiful!" exclaimed Captain Dapper. "Strike me if I ever heard more
      beautiful poetry!"  
  "Almotht ath good ath your lineth on the Thea Therpent. Wath the poem witten by the thame
      perthon that painted the landthcape?"  
  "The very same," answered Isabella. "His initials are in the corner."  
  "R. M. Who can that be?" exclaimed Dapper.  
  "Robert Montgomery, perhaps?" said Isabella, smiling with a charmingly arch expression of
      countenance.  
  "No—Wichard Markham!" cried Sir Cherry; and then he and his friend the hussar captain were
      excessively annoyed to think that they had been extolling to the skies the performances of an
      individual who had frightened the one out of his wits, and boxed the ears of the other.  
  Thus passed the evening; but Markham was reserved and melancholy. It was in vain that
      Isabella exerted herself to instil confidence into his mind, by means of those thousand little
      attentions and manifestations of preference which lovers know so well how to exhibit, but
      which those around perceive not. Richard was firm in those resolutions which he deemed
      consistent with propriety and honour; and he deeply regretted the explanation and its
      consequences into which the enthusiasm of the moment had that evening led him.  
  At length the hour for retiring to rest arrived.  
  Richard repaired to his chamber—but not to sleep. His mind was too much harassed by the
      events of the evening—the plans which he had pursued, and those which he intended to
      pursue—the love which he bore to Isabel, and the stern opposition which might be anticipated
      from her father—the persecution to which he was subject at the hands of the Resurrection
      Man—and the train of evil fortune which appeared constantly to attend upon him;—of all these
      he thought; and his painful meditations defied the advance of slumber.  
  The window of his bed-chamber overlooked the garden at the back of the house; from which
      direction a strange and alarming noise suddenly broke in upon his reflections. He listened—and
      all was quiet: he therefore felt convinced that his terror was unfounded. A few moments
      elapsed; and he was again alarmed by a sound which seemed like the jarring of an unfastened
      shutter. A certain uneasiness now took possession of him; and he was determined to ascertain
      whether all was safe about the premises. He leapt from his bed, raised the window, and looked
      forth. The night was now pitch dark; and he could distinguish nothing. Not even were the
      outlines of the trees in the garden discernible amidst that profound and dense obscurity.
      Markham held his breath; and the whispering of voices met his ears. He could not, however,
      distinguish a word they uttered:—a low hissing continuous murmur, the nature of which it was
      impossible to mistake, convinced him that some persons were talking together immediately
      beneath his window. In a few moments the jarring of a door or shutter, which he had before
      heard, was repeated; and then the whispering ceased.  
  By this time his eyes had become accustomed to the darkness; and he could now faintly
      discern the outlines of three human forms standing together at the back door of the house. He
      could not, however, distinguish the precise nature of their present employment. It was,
      nevertheless, evident to him that they were not there with any honest intention in view; and
      he resolved to adopt immediate measures to defeat their burglarious schemes. He hastily threw
      on his clothes, struck a light, and issued from his room.  
    
  "This is fortunate!" whispered the count: "I was coming to alarm you: there are thieves
      breaking in. You and I can manage them; it is of no use to call Bounce or Dapper. Take this
      cutlass, and let us descend gently. Here come the men-servants."  
  The count hurried down stairs, followed by Markham, and the three male domestics of the
      household.  
  A noise was heard in the pantry, which was situate at the back of the house on the same
      level with the hall.  
  "Douse the darkey, blow the glim, and mizzle," cried a hoarse gruff voice, as the count,
      Richard, and the servants approached the pantry: "there's five on 'em—it's no use——"  
  The count rushed forward, and burst open the door of the pantry, closely followed by
      Markham, holding the candle.  
  Two of the burglars made a desperate push down the kitchen stairs and escaped: the third was
      captured in an attempt to follow his companions.  
  The light of the candle fell upon the villain's countenance, which was literally ghastly
      with a mingled expression of rage and alarm.  
  Richard shuddered: for the captured burglar was no other than the Resurrection Man.  
  "Wretch!" exclaimed Markham, recovering his self-command: "the law will at length reach
      you."  
  "What! do you know this fellow?" demanded the count, somewhat surprised by the
      observation.  
  "Know me!" cried the Resurrection Man: "of course he does. But supposing someone was to tell
      you a piece of valuable information, count—about a matter closely concerning yourself and
      family—would you be inclined to be merciful?"  
  "Of what nature is that information? It must be very valuable indeed, if you think that I
      will enter into any compromise with such as you."  
  "Pledge me your word that you will let me go scot free, and I will tell you something that
      concerns the peace and happiness—perhaps the honour of your daughter."  
  "Miscreant!" cried Markham: "profane not that lady by even alluding to her!"  
  "Stay—curse the fellow's impudence," said the count: "perhaps he may really have somewhat
      worth communicating. At all events, I will try him. Now, then, my man, what is it that you
      have to say? If your statement be worth hearing, I swear that I will neither molest you, nor
      suffer you to be molested."  
  "Hold, count," exclaimed Markham: "make no rash vow—you know not what a wretch——"  
  "Silence, my dear friend," said the count authoritatively: "I will hear the man, let him be
      who or what he may!"  
  "And you will do well to hear me, sir," continued the Resurrection Man. "You harbour a
      villain in your house; and that villain is now before you. He boasts of having secured the
      affections of your daughter, and hopes to gull you into allowing him to marry her."  
  "Miscreant—murderer!" exclaimed Markham, no longer able to contain his indignation: "pollute
      not innocence itself by these allusions to a lady whose spotless mind——"  
  "Hush!" said the count. "Let us hear patiently all this man has to say. I can soon judge
      whether he be speaking the truth; and if he deceives me, I will show him no mercy."  
  "But, count—allow me one word—I myself will unfold——"  
  "Excuse me, Markham," interrupted the Italian noble, with dignified firmness: "I will hear
      this man first. Proceed!"  
  "The villain I allude to is of course that Markham," continued the Resurrection Man. "It was
      him, too, that induced me and my pals, the Cracksman and the Buffer, to make this attempt upon
      your house to-night."  
  "What foul—what hideous calumny is this!" almost screamed the distracted Markham, as this
      totally unexpected and unfounded accusation met his ears.  
  The count himself was shocked at this announcement; for he suddenly recollected Richard's
      moody, embarrassed, and thoughtful manner the whole evening, and his sudden intention of
      departing the next day.  
  "Go on," said the count.  
  "I met that man," continued the body-snatcher, pointing contemptuously towards Markham, "a
      little more than a fortnight ago in this neighbourhood: he was walking with your daughter; and
      it was in consequence of certain little arrangements with me that he went back to London next
      day. Oh! I am well acquainted with all his movements."  
  "And you sought my life in a manner the most base——" began Markham, unable to restrain his
      feelings.  
  "Silence, Markham!" exclaimed the count, still more authoritatively than before. "Your time
      to speak will come."  
  "We planned this work while he was in London," continued the Resurrection Man; "and this
      very evening he told me over the garden wall that all was right."  
  "Merciful God!" cried the count: "this is but too true!"  
  "Yes, sir—I certainly spoke to him," said Richard,—"and from the garden too——"  
  "Mr. Markham, this continued interruption is indecent," exclaimed the count emphatically,
      while a cold perspiration burst out upon his forehead; for he had recalled to mind the
      incident respecting the garden.  
  "I have little more to add, count," said the Resurrection Man. "This Markham told me that
      you had plenty of plate and money always in the house; and as he had lost nearly all his
      property, he should not be displeased at an opportunity of getting hold of a little swag. It
      was agreed that we should meet in London to arrange the business; and so we did meet at the
         Dark House   in Brick Lane, where we settled the affair along with the Cracksman and
      the Buffer, who have just made off. This is all I have to say—unless it is that me and your
      friend Markham first got acquainted in Newgate——"  
  "Newgate!" ejaculated the count, with a thrill of horror.  
  "Yes—Newgate; where he was waiting to be tried for forgery, for which he got two years in
      the Compter. And that's all. Let him deny it if he can."  
  Scarcely were these terrible words uttered by the Resurrection Man, when a loud—long—and
      piercing scream was heard, coming from the direction of the staircase; and then some object
      instantly fell with violence upon the marble floor of the hall.  
  "Isabella! Isabella!" ejaculated Markham, turning hastily round to hurry to her
      assistance.  
  "Stop, sir—seek not my daughter," cried the count, in a stern voice, as he caught Richard's
      arm and held him back. "Let not a soul stir until my return!"  
   about Count Alteroni, as he uttered these words, which could not escape the
      notice of Richard Markham, even amidst the crushing and overwhelming circumstances that
      surrounded him.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The count took the candle from Markham's hand, and hastened to the aid of his daughter, who,
      half-dressed, was lying upon the cold marble of the hall. He hastened to raise her; and at
      that moment the countess appeared upon the stairs, followed by a lady's-maid bearing a
      lamp.  
  The count reassured her in respect to the safety of the house, consigned Isabella to her
      care, and then returned to the pantry, where his presence was awaited in silence.  
  "Have you any thing more to say?" demanded the count of the Resurrection Man.  
  "Nothing. Have not I said enough?"—and he glanced with fiendish triumph towards Markham.  
  "Now, sir," said the count, turning to Richard; "is the statement of this man easy to be
      refuted?"  
  "Alas! I am compelled to admit that, the victim of the most extraordinary circumstantial
      evidence ever known to fix guilt upon an innocent man, I was a prisoner in Newgate and the
      Compter; but——"  
  "Say no more! say no more! God forgive me, that I should have allowed such a man to become
      the friend of my wife and daughter!"  
  The count uttered these words in a tone of intense agony.  
  "Count Alteroni, allow me one word of explanation," said Richard. "Only cast your eyes over
      this paper, and you will be convinced of my innocence!"  
  Markham handed the document signed by Talbot,   alias   Pocock, to the count; but the
      nobleman tossed it indignantly on the floor.  
  "You have confessed that you have been an inmate of the felons' gaols: what explanation can
      you give that will wipe away so foul a stain? Depart—begone! defile not my house longer with
      your presence!"  
  —his chest expanded—his cheeks were flushed—and his eyes flashed fire. Yes—even
      beneath his dark complexion was the rich Italian blood seen mantling his countenance.  
  "Go, sir—hasten your departure—stay not another minute here! A man accused of
      forgery—condemned to an infamous punishment,—a liberated felon—a freed convict in my family
      dwelling—— Holy God! I can scarcely restrain myself within the bounds of common patience when
      I think of the indignity that myself, my wife, and my innocent daughter have endured."  
  With these words the colonel pushed Markham rudely from the pantry, and ordered a servant to
      conduct him to the front door.  
  The blood of the young man boiled in his veins at this ignominious treatment;—and yet he
      dared not rebel against it!  
  The Resurrection Man took his departure at the same time by the garden at the back of the
      house.  
  As Markham turned down the shrubbery, a window on the third floor of the count's dwelling
      was thrown open; and the voices of Sir Cherry Bounce and the Honourable Captain Dapper were
      heard loading him with abuse.  
  Bowed down to the earth by the weight of the misfortune which had just fallen upon his
      head,—crushed by unjust and unfounded suspicions,—and sinking beneath a sense of shame and
      degradation, which all his innocence did not deprive of a single pang,—Markham dragged himself
      away from the house in which he had passed so many happy hours, and where he left behind him
      all that he held dear in this life.  
  He seated himself upon a mile-stone at a little distance from the count's mansion, to which
      he turned his eyes to take a last farewell of the place where Isabella resided.  
  Lights were moving about in several rooms;—perhaps she was ill?  
  Most assuredly she had heard the dread accusations which had issued from the lips of the
      Resurrection Man against her lover;—and she would haply believe them all?  
  So thought Richard. Human language cannot convey an adequate idea of the heart-rending
      misery which the poor oppressed young man endured as he sate by the road-side, and pondered
      upon all that had just occurred.  
  Shame upon shame—degradation upon degradation—mountain upon mountain rolled on his breast,
      as if he were a modern Titan, to crush him and keep him down—never more to rise;—this was now
         his   fate!  
  At length, afraid of being left alone with his own thoughts, which seemed to urge him to end
      his earthly woes in the blood of a suicide, he rose from the cold stone, turned one last
      sorrowful and lingering glance towards the mansion in the distance, and then hurried along the
      road to Richmond as if he were pursued by bloodhounds.  
  And not more fearful nor more appalling would those bloodhounds have been than the horrible
      and excruciating thoughts which haunted him upon his way, and of which he could not divest
      himself; so that at length a species of delirium seized upon him as he ran furiously onward,
      the mark of Cain appearing to burn like red-hot iron upon his brow, and a terrible voice
      thundering in his ear—"  Freed Convict  !"  
  
  CHAPTER XLVII. ELIZA SYDNEY.  
  THE reader will remember that the events already related have brought us up to the close of
      1838.  
  Thus three years had elapsed since the memorable trial which resulted in the condemnation of
      Eliza Sydney to an imprisonment of twenty-four long months in Newgate; and a year had passed
      since her release from that dread abode.  
  We therefore return to her again in December, 1838—about the same time that those incidents
      occurred which we detailed in the last few chapters.  
  Probably to the surprise of the reader, we again find Eliza Sydney the mistress of the
      beautiful villa at Upper Clapton.  
  Yes: on the evening when we once more introduce ourselves to her, she was sitting alone in
      the drawing-room of that home, reading by the side of a cheerful fire.  
  She was now twenty-eight years of age; and, although somewhat more inclining to
         embonpoint   than when we first described her, she was still a lovely and fascinating
      woman. That slightly increased roundness of form had given her charms a voluptuousness the
      most ravishing and seductive, but the effects of which upon the beholder were attempered by
      the dignity that reigned upon her high and noble brow, and the chaste expression of her
      melting hazel eyes.  
  She was one of those fine creatures—one of those splendid specimens of the female sex, which
      are alone seen in the cold climates of the north; for it appears to be a rule in nature that
      the flowers of our species expand into the most luscious loveliness in the least genial
      latitudes.  
  There was a soft melancholy in the expression of her countenance, which might have been
      mistaken for languor, and which gave an additional charm to her appearance; for it was easy to
      perceive her mind was now at ease, that delicate shade of sadness being the indelible effect
      of the adventures of the past.  
  Her mind was at ease, because she was pure in heart and virtuous in intention,—because she
      knew that she had erred innocently when she lent herself to the fraud for which she had
      suffered,—because she possessed a competency that secured her against care for the present and
      fear for the future,—and because she dwelt in that strict solitude and retirement which she
      loved, and which was congenial to a soul that had seen enough of the world to learn to dread
      its cruel artifices and deceptive ways.  
  We said that it was evening when we again introduce Eliza to the readers. A cold wind
      whistled without; and a huge Christmas log burnt at the back of the grate, giving an air of
      supreme comfort to that tastefully-furnished room.  
  The French porcelain time-piece upon the mantel proclaimed the hour of eight.  
  Scarcely had the silvery chime ceased, when Louisa entered the room in great haste and
      excitement.  
  "Oh, ma'am! who do you think is here?" she cried, closing the door carefully behind her.  
  "It is impossible for me to guess, Louisa," said Eliza, smiling.  
  "Mr. Stephens!" exclaimed the servant: "and he earnestly implores to see you!"  
  "Mr. Stephens!" echoed Eliza. "Impossible!"  
  "It is him, flesh and blood: but so pale—so ghostly pale—and so altered!"  
   well aware that, in accordance with his sentence, he most be very—very far from
      England."  
  "He is here—he is in London—he is at your door!" said Louisa emphatically; "and as far as I
      could see by the light of the candle that I had with me when I answered his knock, he is in
      rags and tatters."  
  "And he wishes to see me?" said Eliza, musing.  
  "Yes, ma'am."  
  There was a pause of a few moments.  
  "I will see him," exclaimed Eliza, in a decided tone, after some consideration. "He may be
      in want—in distress; and I cannot forget that he proclaimed my innocence in the dock of the
      Old Bailey."  
  Louisa left the room: and in another minute the convict Stephens stood in the presence of
      Eliza Sydney.  
  Altered! he was indeed altered. His eyes were sunken and lustreless—his cheeks wan and
      hollow—his hair prematurely tinged with grey—and his form thin and emaciated. He was moreover
      clad in rags—absolute rags.  
  "My God!" ejaculated Eliza: "in what a condition do you return to your native land!"  
  "And heaven alone knows what sacrifices I have made, and what hardships I have undergone to
      come back!" said Stephens in a hollow voice.  
  "You are pardoned, then?"  
  "Oh, no! crimes like mine are not so readily forgiven. I escaped!"  
  "Escaped!" exclaimed Eliza: "and are you not afraid of being recaptured?"  
  "I must run that risk," replied Stephens, sorrowfully. "But give me food—I am hungry—I am
      starving!"  
  The unhappy man sank upon a chair as he uttered these words; and Eliza summoned Louisa to
      bring refreshments.  
  The servant placed a tray laden with provisions upon the table, and retired.  
  Stephens then fell ravenously upon the food thus set before him; while tears stood in
      Eliza's eyes when she thought that the miserable wretch had once commanded in that house where
      he now craved a morsel of bread!  
  At length the convict terminated his meal.  
  "I had eaten nothing," he said, "since yesterday afternoon, when I spent my last penny to
      procure a roll. Last night I slept in a shed near the docks, a large stone for my pillow. All
      this day I have been wandering about the most obscure and wretched neighbourhoods of
      London—not knowing whither to go, and afraid to be seen by any one who may recognise me.
      Recognise me!" he added, in a strange satirical manner: "that would perhaps be difficult;"
      then, linking his voice almost to a whisper, he said in a tone of profound and touching
      melancholy, "Do you not find me much—very much altered?"  
  "You have doubtless suffered deeply," said Eliza, wiping away the tears from her eyes; for
      at that moment she remembered not the injury brought by that man upon herself—she saw and knew
      of nought save the misery of the hapless being before her.  
  "You weep, Eliza," exclaimed Stephens, "you weep for me who am unworthy even of your
      notice!"  
  "Forget the past: I prefer dwelling upon the kindnesses rather than the injuries I have
      experienced at your hands."  
  "Excellent woman!" cried the convict, deeply affected. "Oh! you know not what I have
      endured—what dangers I have incurred—what hardships I have undergone—what privations I have
      experienced! Compelled to work my passage back to England as a common sailor—a prey to the
      brutality of a tyrannical and drunken captain—exposed to all the inclemencies of the
      weather,—no tongue can tell what I have gone through! But I will not weary you with my
      complaints. Rather let me hear how you yourself have fared."  
  "My tale is short," answered Eliza. "The two years in Newgate passed away. God knows how
      they passed away—but they   did   pass! Of that I will say no more—save that the most
      powerful interest was exerted to obtain a mitigation of my sentence—but in vain! The Secretary
      of State assured the Earl of Warrington that he could not interfere with the very lenient
      judgment awarded by the court relative to myself. One more circumstance I must mention. Every
      three months, when the prison regulations allowed the admission of the friends of those
      confined, a lady visited me; and though that lady be the mistress of the Earl of Warrington, I
      would rejoice to call her   sister  ."  
  "Oh! how rejoiced I am to know that you were not without friends!" exclaimed Stephens.  
  "The Earl of Warrington sent me by this lady assurances of his forgiveness, and even of his
      intention to befriend me, for the sake of my dear departed mother. But, oh! who could have
      anticipated the noble—the generous conduct pursued towards me by that nobleman? The day of my
      liberation dawned. Mrs. Arlington came in the earl's private travelling carriage, and received
      me at the door of the prison. The carriage rolled away; and, when I had recovered from the
      first emotions of joy at leaving that horrible place, I found we were proceeding along the
      Hackney Road. I cast a glance of surprise at Mrs. Arlington; she only smiled, and would not
      gratify my curiosity. At length we came in sight of the villa, and my astonishment increased.
      Still Mrs. Arlington only smiled. In a few minutes more the carriage entered the enclosure,
      and drove up to this door. Mrs. Arlington seemed to enjoy my surprise—and yet tears glistened
      in her eyes. Oh! the admirable woman: they were tears of joy at the grateful task which the
      earl had imposed upon her. The front door opened, and Louisa ran forward to welcome me. Mrs.
      Arlington took my hand, and led me into the dining-room. The furniture was all entirely new.
      She conducted me over the house: every room was similarly renovated. At length I felt
      exhausted with pleasure, hope, and alarm, and sank upon the sofa in this apartment. 'My dear
      Eliza,' said Mrs. Arlington, 'all that you survey is yours. The very house itself is your own
      property. The Earl of Warrington has purchased it, for you; and his solicitor, Mr. Pakenham,
      will call upon you to-morrow with the title-deeds.'——I fainted through excess of happiness and
      gratitude."  
  "How noble!" exclaimed Stephens. "I knew that the Earl of Warrington had purchased this
      estate; for I had already mortgaged it to its full value previous to that fatal epoch when all
      my hopes failed! My brother, who resided in Liverpool, left England six months after my
      departure, and went out to settle in New South Wales. He told me that the person who had lent
      me the money upon this property, had disposed of it to the earl. My brother's object was to
      settle at Sydney, and procure me to be allotted to him as his servant. I should then have been
      free. But, alas! scarcely had he set foot in the island, when he was seized with a malignant
      fever, which proved fatal."  
   And if I have been greatly afflicted—I have also enjoyed some happiness. In
      reference to my own narrative, I must add that Mr. Pakenham called on the following day, as
      Mrs. Arlington had promised; and he placed the deeds in my hand. I desired him to retain them
      in his care for me. He then informed me that the Earl of Warrington had purchased for me an
      annuity of four hundred pounds a-year. Oh! such generosity overwhelmed me. I begged to be
      allowed to hasten and throw myself at the feet of that excellent nobleman; but Mr. Pakenham
      intimated that his lordship was averse to an interview. In a word, he made me understand that
      I might never hope to thank my benefactor to his face, and that a letter expressing my
      feelings would be equally unwelcome. The good lawyer, however, tranquillised my mind on one
      point: the earl has no aversion to me—entertains no animosity against me; but he cannot bear
      to contemplate the offspring of the woman whom he himself loved so madly!"  
  "Thus you are happy, and blest with kind friends; and I—— I am an outcast!" said Stephens,
      in a tone of bitter remorse. "Oh! what would I give to be able to recall the past! Blessed,
      however, be that strange and unaccountable curiosity which led me into this neighbourhood
      to-night! I say, blessed be it—since it has been the unexpected means for me to hear and know
      that you at least are happy. Oh! conceive my astonishment when, on approaching the villa, I
      inquired of a peasant, '  Who dwells there now?  ' and he replied, '  Miss
      Sydney!  ' I could not mistake that announcement: I was already prepared by it for the
      narrative which you have given me of the Earl of Warrington's generosity."  
  "Without him, what should I be at this moment?" said Eliza. "He has been more than a friend
      to me,—his kindness was rather that of a father or a brother! And that angel Mrs. Arlington,
      who visited me in prison—who poured consolation into my soul, and sustained me with hopes that
      have been more than realised,—oh! how deep a debt of gratitude do I owe to her also. She did
      not conceal from me her true position in reference to the Earl of Warrington: she detailed to
      me the narrative of her sorrows; and I learnt that George Montague was the base deceiver who
      first taught her to stray from the paths of virtue."  
  "George Montague!" exclaimed Stephens. "What has become of that man? He is artful, talented,
      designing, and might perhaps be able to serve me if he would."  
  "He has assumed, I am told, the name of Greenwood, and dwells in a magnificent house in
      Spring Gardens. This I learnt from Mrs. Arlington, who called here a few days ago. She also
      informed me that Montague had circulated a report amongst his acquaintances, that the death of
      a distant relation had put him in possession of considerable property, and rendered the
      assumption of the name of Greenwood an indispensable condition of its enjoyment."  
  "And thus has Montague risen," said Stephens; "while I am humbled to the dust! His intrigues
      and machinations have enriched him; and the story of the death of a wealthy relation is no
      doubt the apology for the sudden display of the treasures he has been amassing for the last
      four or five years. Have you seen him lately?"  
  "He called here a few days after my release from imprisonment," said Eliza, with a slight
      blush; "but I did not choose to see him. I love solitude—I prefer retirement."  
  "And my visit has most disagreeably intruded upon your privacy," observed Stephens.  
  "I could have wished to have seen you in a more prosperous state, for your own sake,"
      answered Eliza; "but as I observed just now, I would rather remember the kindnesses I have
      received at your hands, than the miseries which have resulted from your guilty deception. If
      with my modest and limited means I can assist you, speak! What do you propose to do?"  
  "My object is to proceed to America, where I might be enabled to obtain an honest livelihood
      by my mercantile experience and knowledge. Every moment that I prolong my stay in England is
      fraught with increased peril to my safety; for were I captured, I should be sent back to that
      far-off clime where so many of my fellow-countrymen endure inconceivable miseries, and where
      my lot would become terrible indeed."  
  "I will assist you in your object," said Eliza. "Mr. Pakenham, who acts as my banker, has a
      hundred pounds of mine in his hands: to-morrow I will draw that amount; and if it will be of
      any service towards the accomplishment of your plans——"  
  "Oh, Eliza! how can I sufficiently express my gratitude?" interrupted Stephens, joy and hope
      animating his care-worn countenance and firing his sunken eyes.  
  "Do not thank me," said Eliza. "I shall be happy if I can efface one wrinkle from the brow
      of a fellow-creature. For your present necessities take this,"—and she handed him her purse.
      "To-morrow evening I shall expect you to call again; and I will then provide you with the
      means to seek your fortune in another quarter of the world."  
  Stephens shed tears as he received the purse from the fair hand of that noble-hearted
      woman.  
  He then took his departure with a heart far more light than when he had knocked humbly and
      timidly at the door of that villa an hour before.  
  
  CHAPTER XLVIII. MR. GREENWOOD'S VISITORS.  
  MR. Greenwood was seated in his study the morning after the event which occupied the last
      chapter.  
  He was dressed   en negligé  .  
  A French velvet skull-cap, embroidered with gold, sate upon his curled and perfumed hair: a
      sumptuous brocade silk dressing-gown was confined around the waist by a gold cord with large
      tassels hanging almost to his feet: his shirt collar was turned down over a plain broad black
      riband, the bow of which was fastened with a diamond broach of immense value; and on his
      fingers were costly rings, sparkling with stones of corresponding kind and worth.  
  On the writing-table an elegant French watch attached to a long gold chain, lay amidst a
      pile of letters, just as if it had been carelessly tossed there. A cheque, partly filled up
      for a thousand guineas,—several bank-notes, and some loose gold, were lying on an open
      writing-desk; and, at one end of the table lay, in seeming confusion, a number of visiting
      cards bearing the names of eminent capitalists, wealthy merchants, peers, and members of
      Parliament.  
   lay upon his table: and his own hand had arranged the manner in which the watch,
      the cheque-book, and the money were tossing about. Never did a coquet practise a particular
      glance, attitude, or mannerism, more seriously than did Mr. Greenwood these little artifices
      which, however trifling they may appear, produced an immense effect upon those with whom he
      had to deal, and who visited him in that study.  
  Every thing he did was the result of a calculation, and had an aim: every word he spoke,
      however rapid the utterance, was duly weighed and measured.  
  And yet at this time the man who thus carried his knowledge of human nature even to the most
      ridiculous niceties, was only in his twenty-eighth year. How perverted were great talents—how
      misapplied an extraordinary quickness of apprehension in this instance!  
  Mr. Greenwood contemplated the arrangements of his writing-table with calm satisfaction; and
      a smile of triumph curled his lip as he thought of the position to which such little artifices
      as those had helped to raise him. He despised the world: he laughed at society; and he cared
      not for the law—for he walked boldly up to the extreme verge where personal security ceased
      and peril began; but he never over-stepped the boundary. He had plundered many—he had enriched
      himself with the wealth of others—he had built his own fortunes upon the ruins of his fellow
      men's hopes and prospects: but still he had so contrived all his schemes that the law could
      never reach him, and if one of his victims accused him of villany he had a plausible
      explanation to offer for his conduct.  
  If a person said to him, "Your schemes have involved me in utter ruin, and deprived me of
      every penny I possessed,"—he would unblushingly reply, "What does the man mean? He forgets
      that I suffered far more than he did; and that where he lost hundreds I lost thousands! It is
      impossible to control speculations: some turn up well, some badly; and this man might as well
      blame the keeper of a lottery-office because his ticket did not turn up a prize, as attempt to
      throw any odium upon me!"  
  And this language would prove satisfactory and seem straight-forward to all by-standers,
      save the poor victim himself, who nevertheless would be struck dumb by the other's
      assurance.  
  Greenwood had commenced his ways of intrigue and pursuits of duplicity in the City, where he
      was known as George Montague. The moment he had obtained a considerable fortune, he repaired
      to the West End, added the name of Greenwood to his other appellations, and thus commenced, as
      it were, a new existence in a new sphere.  
  He possessed the great advantage of exercising a complete control over all his feelings,
      passions, and inclinations—save with respect to women. In this point of view he was a complete
      sensualist—a heartless voluptuary. He would spare neither expense nor trouble to gratify his
      amorous desires, where he formed a predilection; and if in any case he would run a risk of
      involving himself in the complexities of civil or criminal law, the peril would be encountered
      in an attempt to satisfy his lustful cravings. There are many men of this stamp in the
      world,—especially in great cities—and, more especially still, in London.  
  Mr. Greenwood, having completed the arrangements of his study in the manner described, rang
      the bell.  
  His French valet Lafleur made his appearance in answer to the summons. Mr. Greenwood then
      threw himself negligently into the arm-chair at his writing-table, and proceeded to issue his
      instructions to his dependant.  
  "Lafleur, the Count Alteroni will call this morning. When he has been here about ten
      minutes, bring me in this letter."  
  He handed his valet a letter, sealed, and addressed to himself.  
  "At about twelve o'clock Lord Tremordyn will call. Let him remain quietly for a quarter of
      an hour with me; and then come in and say, '  The Duke of Portsmouth has sent round, sir, to
       know whether he can positively rely upon your company to dinner this evening.  ' Do you
      understand?"  
  "Perfectly, sir," answered Lafleur, without the slightest variation of countenance; for he
      was too politic and too   finished   a valet to attempt to criticise his master's
      proceedings by means of even a look.  
  "So far, so good," resumed Mr. Greenwood. "Sir Rupert Harborough will call this morning: you
      will tell him I am not at home."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "Lady Cecilia Harborough will call at one precisely: you will conduct her to the
      drawing-room."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "And all the time she is here I shall not be at home to a soul."  
  "No, sir."  
  "At four o'clock I shall go out in the cab: you can then pay a visit to Upper Clapton and
      ascertain by any indirect means you can light upon, whether Miss Sydney still inhabits the
      villa, and whether she still pursues the same retired and secluded mode of existence as when
      you last made inquiries in that quarter."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "And you can ride round by Holloway and find out—also by indirect inquiries,
      remember—whether Mr. Markham is at home, and any other particulars relative to him which you
      can glean. I have already told you that I have the deepest interest in being acquainted with
      all that that young man does—his minutest actions even."  
  "I will attend to your orders, sir."  
  "To-night, you will dress yourself in mean attire and repair to a low public-house on
      Saffron-hill, known by the name of the   Boozing Ken   by the thieves and reprobates of
      that district. You will inquire for a man who frequents that house, and who is called Tom the
      Cracksman. No one knows him by any other name. You will tell him who your master is, and that
      I wish to see him upon very particular business. He must be here to-morrow night at nine
      o'clock. Give him this five-pound note as an earnest of good intentions."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "And now take these duplicates and that bank-note for five hundred pounds, and just go
      yourself to V——'s the pawnbroker's in the Strand, and redeem the diamonds mentioned in these
      tickets. You will have time before any one comes."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "And should Lord Tremordyn happen to be here when you return, hand me the packet, which you
      will have wrapped up in white paper, saying '  With the Duke's compliments, sir.  '"  
  "Yes, sir."  
  Thus ended the morning's instructions.  
  The valet took the letter (which Mr. Greenwood had written to himself,) the duplicates, and
      the bank notes; and retired.  
   morocco case containing a complete set of diamonds, worth at least twelve
      hundred guineas.  
  He again withdrew, and returned in a few minutes;—but this time it was to usher in Count
      Alteroni.  
  Mr. Greenwood received the Italian noble with more than usual affability and apparent
      friendship.  
  "I am delighted to inform you, my dear count," he said, when they were both seated, "that
      our enterprise is progressing well. I yesterday received a letter from a certain capitalist to
      whom I applied relative to the loan of two hundred thousand pounds which I informed you it was
      necessary to raise to carry out our undertaking, in addition to the capital which you and I
      have both subscribed; and I have no doubt that I shall succeed in this point. Indeed, he is to
      send me his decision this very morning."  
  "Then I hope that at length the Company is definitively formed?" said the count.  
  "Definitively," answered Mr. Greenwood.  
  "And the deed by which you guarantee to me the safety of the money I have embarked, let the
      event be what it may?" said the count.  
  "That will be ready to-morrow evening. Can you dine with me to-morrow, and terminate that
      portion of the business after dinner? My solicitor will send the deed hither by one of his
      clerks at half-past eight o'clock."  
  "With pleasure," said the count, evidently pleased at this arrangement.  
  "There has been some delay," said Mr. Greenwood; "but really the fault has not existed with
      me."  
  "You will excuse my anxiety in this respect: indeed, I have probably pressed you more than I
      ought for the completion of that security; but you will remember that I have embarked my all
      in this enterprise."  
  "Do not attempt an apology. You have acted as a man of prudence and caution; and you will
      find that I shall behave as a man of business."  
  "I am perfectly satisfied," said the count. "I should not have advanced my money unless I
      had been so perfectly satisfied with your representations; for—unless events turn up in my
      favour in my own country, I must for ever expect to remain an exile from Castelcicala. And
      that good fortune will shine upon me from that quarter, I can scarcely expect. My liberal
      principles have offended the Grand-Duke and the old nobility of that state; and now that the
      aristocracy has there gained the ascendancy, and is likely to retain it, I can hope for
      nothing. I would gladly have aided the popular cause, and obtained for the people of
      Castelcicala a constitution; but the idea of representative principles is odious to those now
      in power."  
  "I believe that you were a staunch adherent of the Prince of Castelcicala, who is the nephew
      of the reigning Grand-Duke and the heir-apparent to the throne?" said Mr. Greenwood.  
  "You have been rightly informed; but if the Pope and the Kings of Naples and Sardinia
      support the aristocracy of Castelcicala, that prince will be excluded from his inheritance and
      a foreigner will be placed upon the grand-ducal throne. In this case, the prince will be an
      exile until his death—without even a pension to support him; so irritated are the old
      aristocracy against him."  
  "I believe that Castelcicala is a fine state?"  
  "A beautiful country—extensive, well-cultivated, and productive. It contains two millions of
      inhabitants. The capital, Montoni, is a magnificent city, of a hundred thousand souls. The
      revenues of the Grand-Duke are two hundred thousand pounds sterling a-year; and yet he is not
      contented! He does not study his people's happiness."  
  "And where at the present moment is that gallant prince who has thus risked his accession to
      the throne, for the welfare of his fellow-countrymen?" inquired Greenwood.  
  "That remains a secret," answered the count. "His partisans alone know."  
  "Of course I would not attempt to intrude upon matters so sacred," said Greenwood, "were I
      not deeply interested in yourself, whom I know to be one of his most staunch adherents."  
  At that moment the door opened; and Lafleur entered, bearing a letter, which he handed to
      Mr. Greenwood. He then retired.  
  "Will you excuse me?" said Greenwood to the count; then, opening the letter, he appeared to
      read it with attention.  
  At the expiration of a few moments, he said, "This letter is from my capitalist. He gives me
      both good and bad news. He will advance the loan; but he cannot command the necessary amount
      for three months."  
  "Then there will be three months' more delay?" exclaimed the count in a tone of
      vexation.  
  "Three months! and what is that? A mere nothing!" cried Mr. Greenwood. "You can satisfy
      yourself of my friend's sincerity."  
  With these words he handed to the count the letter which he had written to himself in a
      feigned hand, and to which he had affixed a fictitious name and address.  
  The count read the letter and was satisfied.  
  He then rose to depart.  
  "To-morrow evening, at seven o'clock punctually, I shall do myself the pleasure of waiting
      upon you. In a few days, you remember, I and my family are coming up to town to pass some time
      with Lord Tremordyn."  
  "And I shall then be bold and presumptuous enough," said Greenwood, "to endeavour to render
      myself acceptable to the Signora Isabella."  
  "By the bye," exclaimed the count, "I forgot to inform you of the villany of that Richard
      Markham, whom I received into the bosom of my family, and treated as a son, or a brother."  
  "His villany!" ejaculated Greenwood, in a tone of unfeigned surprise.  
  "Villany the most atrocious!" cried the count. "He is a man branded with the infamy of a
      felon's gaol!"  
  "Impossible!" said Greenwood, this time affecting the astonishment expressed by his
      countenance.  
  "It is, alas! too true. The night before last, he invited thieves to break into my dwelling:
      and to those miscreants had he boasted of his intentions to win the favour of my
      daughter!"  
  "Oh! no—no," said Greenwood emphatically; "you must have been misinformed!"  
  "On the contrary, I have received evidence only too corroborative of what I tell you. But
      when I come to-morrow evening, I will give you the details."  
  The count then took his departure.  
   possession of his capital. But this deed—he demands the deed of guarantee: he
      presses for that! I must give him the security to show my good-will; and then neutralise that
      concession on my part, in the manner already resolved upon. How strange was the account he
      gave me of Richard Markham! That unhappy young man appears to be the victim of the most
      wonderful combination of suspicious circumstances ever known; for guilty he could not be—oh!
      no—impossible!"  
  Mr. Greenwood's meditations were interrupted by the entrance of Lord Tremordyn.  
  This nobleman was a short, stout, good-tempered man. Being a large landholder, he exercised
      considerable influence in his county, of which he was lord-lieutenant; and he boasted that he
      could return six members to parliament in spite of the Reform-bill. His wife was moreover
      allied to one of the richest and most important families in the hierarchy of the aristocracy;
      and thus Lord Tremordyn—with no talent, no knowledge, no acquirements to recommend him, but
      with certain political tenets which he inherited along with the family estate, and which he
      professed for no other reason than because they were those of his ancestors,—Lord Tremordyn,
      we say, was a very great man in the House of Lords. He seldom spoke, it is true; but then he
         voted  —and dictated to others   how to vote  ; and in this existed his power.
      When he   did   speak, he uttered an awful amount of nonsense; but the reporters were
      very kind—and so his speeches read well. Indeed, he did not know them again when he perused
      them in print the morning after their delivery. Moreover, his wife was a blue-stocking, and
      dabbled a little in politics; and she occasionally furnished her noble husband with a few
      hints which might have been valuable had he clothed them in language a little intelligible.
      For the rest, Lord Tremordyn was a most hospitable man, was fond of his bottle, and fancied
      himself a sporting character because he kept hounds and horses, and generally employed an
      agent to "make up a book" for him at races, whereby he was most amazingly plundered.  
  "My dear lord," exclaimed Mr. Greenwood, conducting his noble visitor to a seat; "I am
      delighted to see your lordship look so well. So you have parted with   Electricity  ? I
      heard of it yesterday at Tattersalls'."  
  "Yes—and a good price I had for him. But, by the way, my dear Greenwood, I must not forget
      to thank you for the Hock you sent me. It is superb!"  
  "I am delighted that your lordship is pleased with it. Have you seen Sir Rupert Harborough
      lately?"  
  "My scapegrace son-in-law? I wish I had never seen him at all!" ejaculated his lordship. "He
      is over head and ears in debt again: and I swear most solemnly that I will do nothing more for
      him—not to the amount of a penny-piece! Cecilia, too, has quarrelled with her mother; and,
      even if she had not, Lady Tremordyn is the last woman on earth to advance them a
      shilling."  
  "It is a pity—a great pity!" said Mr. Greenwood, apparently musing; then, after a brief
      pause, he added, "You never can guess, my dear lord, why I wished to see your lordship so
      particularly this morning?"  
  "About the match between   Electricity   and   Galvanism  ? The odds are three to
      four."  
  "That was not exactly my business," said Greenwood, with a bland smile: "the fact is, the
      representation of Rottenborough will be vacant in a few weeks. I know positively, that the
      present member intends to accept the Chiltern Hundreds."  
  "I have received a similar intimation," observed his lordship.  
  "At present the matter is a profound secret."  
  "Yes—a profound secret: known only to the member's friends, and me and my friends, and you
      and your friends," added the nobleman, seriously meaning what he said without any attempt at
      irony or satire.  
  "Of course there will be an election in February, shortly after the Houses meet," continued
      Greenwood. "I was going to observe to your lordship that I should be most happy to offer
      myself as a candidate——"  
  "You, Greenwood! What—are you a politician?"  
  "Not so profound nor so well versed as your lordship; but I flatter myself that, aided by
      your lordship's advice——"  
  "Lady Tremordyn would never consent to it!"  
  "And by Lady Tremordyn's suggestions——"  
  "It would never do! She   will   have a man of rank and family; and—excuse me,
      Greenwood—although you are no doubt rich enough far a lord, and well educated, and clever, and
      so on—the deuce of it is that we don't know who the devil you are!"  
  "An excellent family—an excellent family, my dear lord," exclaimed Mr. Greenwood; "and
      although nothing equal to your own, which I know to be the most ancient in England——"  
  "Or Scotland, or Ireland, either."  
  "Or Scotland, or Ireland, or even Europe—still——"  
  "No—it cannot be done, Greenwood;—it cannot be done," interrupted the nobleman. "I would do
      any thing to oblige you;—but——"  
  At that moment the door opened, and Lafleur entered the study.  
  "If you please, sir," said the French valet, "the Duke of Portsmouth has sent round to know
      whether he can positively rely upon your company to dinner this evening?"  
  "My best compliments to his grace, Lafleur," said Mr. Greenwood, affecting to meditate upon
      this message for a moment, "and I will do myself the honour of waiting on his grace at the
      usual hour."  
  "Very good, sir."  
  And Lafleur retired.  
  "Well, after all," resumed Lord Tremordyn, who had not lost a word of this message and the
      answer, "I think I might undertake to arrange the Rottenborough business for you. You have
      high acquaintances—and they often do more good than high connexions. So we will consider that
      matter as settled."  
  "I am deeply obliged to your lordship," said Greenwood, with the calmness of a man who had
      never entertained a fear of being ultimately enabled to carry his point: "you will see that I
      shall imitate in the Lower House your lordship's admirable conduct in the Upper, to the very
      best of my ability."  
  "Of course you will always support the measures I support, and oppose those which I may
      oppose?"  
  "Oh! that is a matter of course! What would become of society—where should we be, if the
      Commons did not obey the great landholders who allow them to be returned?"  
  "Ah! what indeed?" said the nobleman, shaking his head ominously. "But really, Greenwood, I
      wasn't at all aware that you were half so clever a politician as I see you are."  
   value your lordship's good opinion," said Greenwood, in a meek and submissive
      manner: then, after a moment's silence, he added, "By the bye, I understand that our mutual
      friend Alteroni, and his amiable wife, and beautiful daughter, are going to pass the first few
      weeks of the new year with your lordship and Lady Tremordyn?"  
  "Yes: we shall be very gay. The signora must pick up a husband amongst the young nobles or
      scions of great families whom she will meet this winter in London."  
  "Do you not know, my lord," said Greenwood, sinking his voice to a mysterious whisper, "that
      Count Alteroni detests gaiety? are you not aware that he and the ladies have accepted your
      kind invitation under the impression that they will enjoy the pleasing society of your
      lordship and Lady Tremordyn, and a few select friends only?"  
  "I am glad you have told me that!" exclaimed the nobleman "We will have no gaiety at
      all."  
  "The count has honoured me with his utmost confidence, and his sincere friendship," said
      Greenwood.  
  "Oh! of course you will be welcome on all occasions: do not wait for invitations—I give you
      a general one."  
  "I am more than ever indebted to your lordship."  
  After a little more conversation in the same strain, the nobleman took his leave, more
      pleased with Mr. Greenwood than ever.  
  This gentleman, the moment he was alone, threw himself into his chair, and smiled
      complacently.  
  "Gained all my points!" he said, musing. "I shall be a member of parliament—the fair
      Isabella will stand no chance of captivating some wealthy and titled individual who might woo
      and win her—and, I have obtained a general invitation to Lord Tremordyn's dwelling! I alone
      shall therefore have an opportunity of paying court to this Italian beauty."  
  The French valet entered the room.  
  "Lady Cecilia Harborough is in the drawing-room, sir."  
  Mr. Greenwood thrust the morocco case containing the diamonds into the pocket of his
      dressing-gown; and then proceeded to the apartment where the lady was waiting.  
  Lady Cecilia Harborough was about two-and-twenty, and very beautiful. Her hair was auburn,
      her eyes blue, and her features regular. Her figure was good; but she was very slightly made—a
      perfect sylph in symmetry and model. Nursed amidst fashionable pleasure and aristocratic
      dissipation, she was without those principles which are the very basis of virtue. If she were
      true and faithful to her husband, it was only because she had not been strongly tempted to
      prove otherwise: if she had never indulged in an intrigue, it was simply because one to her
      taste had never come in her way. Her passions were strong—her disposition decidedly sensual.
      Thus was it that she had become an easy prey to Sir Rupert Harborough; and when she had
      discovered that she was in a way to become a mother in consequence of that amour, she only
      repented of her conduct through dread of shame, and not for the mere fact of having deviated
      from the path of virtue. Her disgrace was concealed by a patched-up marriage with her seducer,
      a trip to the Continent, and the death of the child at its birth; and thus there was no
      scandal in society attached to the name of Lady Cecilia Harborough.  
  Mr. Greenwood had not made her wait many moments when he entered the drawing-room.  
  Lady Cecilia rose, and hastening towards him, said, "Oh! Mr. Greenwood, what can you think
      of me after the imprudent step I have taken in coming alone and unattended?"  
  "I can only think, Lady Cecilia," said Greenwood, handing her to a seat, and taking a chair
      near her, "that you have done me an honour, the extent of which I can fully appreciate."  
  "But why insist upon this visit to you? why could you not have called upon me?" inquired the
      lady impatiently.  
  "Your ladyship wishes to consult with me upon financial affairs: and every capitalist
         receives   visits, and does not   pay   them, when they refer to business
      only."  
  "Thank you for this apology for my conduct. I fancied that I was guilty of a very great
      imprudence; you have reassured me upon that head;"—and a smile played upon the fair
      patrician's lips.  
  "In what manner can I be of service to your ladyship? You perceive that I will save you the
      trouble of even introducing a disagreeable subject."  
  "Well, Mr. Greenwood," said Lady Cecilia, with that easy familiarity which is always shown
      towards those who are confidants in cases of pecuniary embarrassment,—"you are well aware of
      Sir Rupert's unfortunate situation; and of course his position is also mine. We are literally
      without the means of paying the common weekly bills of the house, and the servants' wages. I
      have quarrelled with my mother; and my father will not advance another sixpence."  
  "Your ladyship is well aware that Sir Rupert Harborough has no security to offer; and if he
      had, I would scarcely advance money to   him  —since I know that   your ladyship  
      seldom profits by any funds which he may possess."  
  "Oh! that is true, Mr. Greenwood!" ejaculated Lady Cecilia, emphatically. "Would you believe
      it—even my very diamonds are gone? Sir Rupert has made away with them!"  
  "In plain terms he pawned them."  
  "He did:—but that is such a horrid avowal to make! When one thinks that it is generally
      supposed that the poor alone have recourse to such means, and that   we   in the upper
      class do not even know what is meant by a pawnbroker's—— Oh! how false is that idea! how
      erroneous is that impression!"  
  "It is, indeed," said Greenwood. "The jewels of half the high-born ladies in London have
      been deposited at different times in the hands of the very pawnbroker where yours were."  
  Lady Cecilia stared at Mr. Greenwood in profound astonishment: then, as a sudden idea seemed
      to flash across her brain, she added, "But Sir Rupert must have told you of this?"  
  "He did."  
  "Do you know," continued the lady, "that I have actually lost the receipts or duplicates—or
      whatever you call them—which the pawnbroker gave when Harborough sent the diamonds by a trusty
      servant of ours."  
  "Those duplicates Sir Rupert Harborough handed over to me," said Greenwood. "I lent him a
      hundred pounds upon them yesterday morning!"  
  "Oh! how ungrateful he is—how unworthy of one particle of affection!" exclaimed Lady
      Cecilia. "He knew how distressed—literally distressed I was for ready money; and he never
      offered me a guinea!"  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Why should I conceal any thing from you, when I come to consult you upon my
      embarrassments?" said Lady Cecilia, tears starting into her eyes. "I am literally disgraced! I
      cannot go to court, nor appear at any grand   réunion  , for the want of my jewels; and I
      am indebted to old Lady Marlborough to the amount of two hundred pounds which she lent me.
      Yesterday she wrote for the sixth time for the money, and actually observed in her letter that
      she considered my conduct unlady-like in the extreme. If I do not pay her this day, I shall be
      ruined—exposed—ashamed to show my face in any society whatever!"  
  "You would therefore make any sacrifice to relieve yourself from these embarrassments?" said
      Greenwood interrogatively.  
  "Oh! any sacrifice! To obtain about eight hundred or a thousand pounds, to redeem my jewels
      and pay my most pressing debts—Lady Marlborough's, for instance—I would do any thing!"  
  "You would make any sacrifice? You would do any thing, Lady Cecilia?" repeated Greenwood
      emphatically. "That is saying a great deal; and an impertinent coxcomb—like me, for
      instance—might perhaps construe your words literally, and be most presumptuous in his
      demands."  
  "My God, Mr. Greenwood—what do you mean?" exclaimed the lady, a slight flush appearing upon
      her cheeks. "My case is so very desperate—I have no security to offer at present—and yet I
      require money,—money I must have! Tell me to throw myself into the Thames a year hence, so
      that I have money to-day, and I would willingly subscribe to the contract. I could even sell
      myself to the Evil One, like Dr. Faustus—I am so bewildered—so truly wretched!"  
  "Since you have verged into the regions of romance and mentioned improbabilities, or
      impossibilities," said Mr. Greenwood, "suppose another strange case;—suppose that a man threw
      himself at your feet—declared his love—sought yours in return—and proffered you his fortune as
      a proof of the sincerity of his heart?"  
   almost inclined to think that I should not prove very cruel to the tender swain
      who would present himself in so truly romantic a manner."  
  Greenwood caught hold of Lady Cecilia's hand, fell at her feet, and presented her with the
      purple morocco case containing the diamonds.  
  "Heavens!" she exclaimed, half inclined to suppose that this proceeding was a mere
      jest,—"what do you mean, Mr. Greenwood? Surely you were not supposing a case in which you
      yourself were to be the principal actor?"  
  "Permit me to lay my heart and fortune at your feet!" said Greenwood. "Nay—you cannot
      repulse me now: you accepted the alternative; your own words have rendered me thus bold, thus
      presumptuous!"  
  "Ah! Mr. Greenwood," exclaimed the fair patrician lady, abandoning her left hand to this
      bold admirer, and receiving the case of diamonds with the right; "you have spread a snare for
      me—and I have fallen into the tangled meshes!"  
  "You can have no compunction—you can entertain no remorse in transferring your affections
      from a man who neglects you, to one who will study your happiness in every way."  
  "But—merciful heavens! you would not have me leave my husband altogether? Oh! I could not
      bear the   éclat   of an elopement: no—never—never!"  
  "Nor would I counsel such a proceeding," said Greenwood, who was himself astonished at the
      ease with which he had obtained this victory: "you must sustain appearances in society; but
      when we   can   meet—and when we are together—oh! then we can be to each other as if we
      alone existed in the world—as if we could indulge in all the joys and sweets of love without
      fear and without peril!"  
  "Yes—I will be yours upon these terms—I will be yours!" murmured Cecilia. "And—remember—you
      must be faithful towards me; and you must never forget the sacrifice I make and the risk I run
      in thus responding to your attachment! But—above all things—do not think ill of me—do not
      despise me! I want something to love—and some one to love me;—and you sympathise with my
      distress—you feel for my unhappiness—you offer me your consolations: oh! yes—it is you whom I
      must love—and you will love me!"  
  "Forever," answered the libertine; and he caught that frail but beauteous lady in his
      arms.  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  An hour elapsed: Lady Cecilia had taken her departure, richer in purse but poorer in
      honour;—and Greenwood had returned to his study.  
  The flush of triumph was upon his brow; and the smile of satisfaction was upon his lip.  
  Lafleur entered the room.  
  "While you were engaged, sir," said the valet, "Sir Rupert Harborough called. He was most
      anxious to see you. I assured him that you were not at home. He said he would call again in an
      hour."  
  "You can then admit him."  
  The valet bowed and withdrew.  
  Mr. Greenwood then wrote several letters connected with the various schemes which he had in
      hand. His occupation was interrupted by the entrance of Sir Rupert Harborough.  
  With what ease and assurance—with what unblushing confidence did the libertine receive the
      man whose wife he had drawn into the snares of infamy and dishonour!  
  "You really must excuse my perseverance in seeing you this day," said Sir Rupert, who
      perceived by Greenwood's attire that he had not been out of the house that morning; "but I am
      in such a mess of difficulties and embarrassments, I really know not which way to turn."  
  "I was particularly engaged when you called just now," said Greenwood; "and you are aware
      that one's valet always answers '  Not at home  ' in such cases."  
  "Oh! deuce take ceremony," exclaimed Sir Rupert. "See if you can do any thing to assist me.
      Lord Tremordyn has literally cut me; and Lady Tremordyn is as stingy as the devil. Besides,
      she and Lady Cecilia have quarrelled; and so there is no hope in that quarter."  
  "I really cannot assist you any farther—at present," observed Greenwood. "In a short time I
      shall be enabled to let you into a good thing, as I told you a little while ago: but for the
      moment—"  
  "Come, Greenwood," interrupted the baronet; "do not refuse me. I will give you a
         post-obit   on the old lord: he is sure to leave me something handsome at his
      death."  
  "Yes—but he may settle it upon your wife in such a manner that you will not be able to touch
      it."  
  "Suppose that Lady Cecilia will join me in the security?"  
  "Insufficient still. Lord Tremordyn may bequeath her ladyship merely a life interest,
      without power to touch the capital."  
  "Well—what the devil can I do?" exclaimed the baronet, almost distracted. "Point out some
      means—lay down some plan—do any thing you like—but don't refuse some assistance."  
  Mr. Greenwood reflected for some minutes; and this time his thoughtful manner was not
      affected. It struck him that he might effect a certain arrangement in this instance by which
      he might get the baronet completely in his power, and lay out some money at an enormous
      interest at the same time.  
  "You see," said Mr. Greenwood, "you have not an atom of security to offer me."  
  "None—none," answered Sir Rupert: "I know of none—if you will not have the
         post-obit  ."  
  "The only means I can think of for the moment," pursued Mr. Greenwood, "is this:—Get me Lord
      Tremordyn's acceptance to a bill of fifteen hundred pounds at three months, and I will lend
      you a thousand upon it without an instant's delay."  
  "Lord Tremordyn's acceptance! Are you mad. Greenwood?"  
  "No—perfectly sane and serious. Of course I shall not call upon him to ask   if it be his
       acceptance  —neither shall I put the bill into circulation. It will be in my desk until it
      is due; and then—if you cannot pay it—"  
  "What then?" said the baronet, in a subdued tone, as if he breathed with difficulty.  
  "Why—you must get it renewed, that's all!" replied Mr. Greenwood.  
  "I understand you—I understand you," exclaimed Sir Rupert Harborough: "it shall be done!
      When can I see you again?"  
  "I shall not stir out for another hour."  
  "Then I shall return this afternoon."  
  And the baronet departed to forge the name of Lord Tremordyn to a bill of exchange for
      fifteen hundred pounds.  
   never allow his son-in-law to be ruined and lost for fifteen or sixteen hundred
      pounds."  
  Again the study door opened; and again did Lafleur make his appearance.  
  "A person, sir, who declines to give his name," said the valet, "solicits an interview for a
      few minutes."  
  "What sort of a looking person is he?"  
  "Very pale and sallow; about the middle height; genteel in appearance; respectably clad; and
      I should say about forty years of age."  
  "I do not recollect such a person. Show him up."  
  Lafleur withdrew, and presently introduced Stephens.  
  For a few moments Greenwood surveyed him in a manner as if he were trying to recollect to
      whom that pale and altered countenance belonged; for although Stephens had made considerable
      improvement in his attire, thanks to the contents of Eliza's purse, he still retained upon his
      features the traces of great suffering, mental and bodily.  
  "You do not know me?" he said, with a sickly smile.  
  "Stephens! is it possible?" exclaimed Greenwood, in an accent of the most profound
      surprise.  
  "Yes—it is I! No wonder that you did not immediately recognise me: were I not fearfully
      altered I should not dare thus to venture abroad by daylight."  
  "Ah! I understand. You have escaped?"  
  "I have returned from transportation. That is the exact truth. Had it not been for an angel
      in human shape, I should have died last night of starvation. That generous being who relieved
      me was Eliza Sydney."  
  "Eliza Sydney!" cried Greenwood. "She received you with kindness?"  
  "She gave me food, and money to obtain clothes and lodging. She moreover promised to supply
      me with the means to reach America. I am to return to her this evening, and receive a certain
      sum for that purpose."  
  "And she told you that I was residing here?" said Greenwood inquiringly.  
  "Yes. I thought that you might be enabled to assist me in my object of commencing the world
      anew in another quarter of the globe. I shall arrive there with but little money and no
      friends;—perhaps you can procure me letters of introduction to merchants in New York."  
  "I think I can assist you," said Greenwood, musing upon a scheme which he was revolving in
      his mind, and which was as yet only a few minutes old: "yes—I think I can. But, would it not
      be better for you to take out a few hundred pounds in your pocket? How can you begin any
      business in the States without capital?"  
  "Show me the way to procure those few hundreds," said Stephens, "and I would hold myself
      ever your debtor."  
  "And perhaps you would not be very particular as to the way in which you obtained such a
      sum?" demanded Greenwood, surveying the returned convict in a peculiar manner.  
  "My condition is too desperate to allow me to stick at trifles," answered Stephens, not
      shrinking from a glance which seemed to penetrate into his very soul.  
  "We understand each other," said Greenwood. "I have money—and you want money: you are a
      returned transport, and in my power. I can serve and save you; or I can ruin and crush you for
      ever."  
  "You speak candidly, at all events," observed Stephens, somewhat bitterly. "Try promises
      first; and should they fail, essay threats."  
  "I merely wished you to comprehend your true position with regard to me," said Greenwood,
      coolly.  
  "And now I understand it but too well. You require of me some service of a certain nature—no
      matter what: in a word, I agree to the bargain."  
  "The business regards Eliza Sydney," proceeded Greenwood.  
  "Eliza Sydney!" exclaimed Stephens, in dismay.  
  "Yes; I love her—and she detests me. I must therefore gratify two passions at the same
      moment—vengeance and desire."  
  "Impossible!" cried Stephens. "You can never accomplish your schemes through my agency!"  
  "Very good:" and Mr. Greenwood moved towards the bell.  
  "What would you do?" demanded Stephens, in alarm.  
  "Summon my servants to hand a returned convict over to justice," answered Greenwood,
      coolly.  
  "Villain! you could not do it!"  
  "I   will   do it:" and Greenwood placed his hand upon the bell-rope.  
  "Oh! no—no—that must not be!" exclaimed Stephens. "Speak—I will do your bidding."  
  Mr. Greenwood returned to his seat.  
  "I must possess Eliza Sydney—and you must be the instrument," he said in his usual calm and
      measured tone. "You are to return to her this evening?"  
  "I am. But I implore you—"  
  "Silence! This evening I am engaged—and to-morrow evening also. The day after to-morrow I
      shall be at liberty. You will invent some excuse which will enable you to postpone your
      departure; and you will contrive to pass the evening after to-morrow with Eliza Sydney. Can
      you do this?"  
  "I can, no doubt: but, again, I beg—"  
  "No more of this nonsense! You will adopt some means to get her faithful servant Louisa out
      of the way; and you will open the front-door of the villa to me at midnight on the evening
      appointed."  
  "You never can effect your purpose!" cried Stephens emphatically. "Were you to introduce
      yourself to her chamber, she would sooner die herself, or slay you, than submit to your
      purpose!"  
  "  She must sleep—sleep profoundly!  " said Greenwood, sinking his voice almost to a
      whisper, and regarding his companion in a significant manner.  
  "My God! what an atrocity!" ejaculated Stephens, with horror depicted upon his
      countenance.  
  "Perhaps you prefer a return to the horrors of transportation,—the miseries of Norfolk
      Island?" said Greenwood satirically.  
  "No—death, sooner!" cried Stephens, striking the palm of his right hand against his
      forehead.  
  Greenwood approached him, and whispered for some time in his ear. Stephens listened in
      silence; and when the libertine had done, he signified a reluctant assent by means of a slight
      nod.  
  "You understand how you are to act?" said Greenwood aloud.  
  "Perfectly," answered Stephens.  
  He then took his departure.  
  Scarcely had he left the house when Sir Rupert Harborough returned.  
  as if he were concluding a perfectly legitimate transaction.  
  Having read the document, he handed a pen to the baronet to endorse it.  
  Sir Rupert affixed his name at the back of the forged instrument with a species of desperate
      resolution.  
  Mr. Greenwood consigned the bill to his desk, and then wrote a cheque for a thousand pounds,
      which he handed to the baronet.  
  Thus terminated this transaction.  
  When the baronet had taken his departure, Mr. Greenwood summoned Lafleur, and said, "You
      need not institute any inquiries relative to Miss Sydney, at Upper Clapton. My orders relative
      to Mr. Markham remain unchanged; and mind that the fellow known as Tom the Cracksman is here
      to-morrow evening at nine o'clock."  
  Mr. Greenwood having thus concluded his morning's business, partook of an elegant luncheon,
      and then proceeded to dress for his afternoon's ride in the Park.  
  
  CHAPTER XLIX. THE DOCUMENT.  
  THE more civilization progresses, and the more refined becomes the human intellect, so does
      human iniquity increase.  
  It is true that heinous and appalling crimes are less frequent;—but every kind of social,
      domestic, political, and commercial intrigue grows more into vogue: human ingenuity is more
      continually on the rack to discover the means of defrauding a neighbour or cheating the
      world;—the sacred name of religion is called in to aid and further the nefarious devices of
      the schemer;—hypocrisy is the cloak which conceals modern acts of turpitude, as dark nights
      were trusted to for the concealment of the bloody deeds of old: mere brute force is now less
      frequently resorted to; but the refinements of education or the exercise of duplicity are the
      engines chiefly used for purposes of plunder. The steel engraver's art, and the skill of the
      caligrapher, are mighty implements of modern misdeed:—years and years are expended in
      calculating the chances of cards and dice;—education, manners, and good looks are essential to
      the formation of the adventurers of the present day;—the Bankruptcy Court itself is a frequent
      avenue to the temple of fortune;—and, in order to suit this new and refined system of things,
      the degrees of vices themselves are qualified by different names, so that he who gambles at a
      gaming-table is a scamp, and he who propagates a lie upon the Exchange and gambles
      accordingly, and with success, is a respectable financier. Chicanery, upon a small scale, and
      in a miserable dark office, is a degradation;—but the delicate and elaborate chicanery of
      politics, by which a statesman is enabled to outwit parties, or deceive whole nations, is a
      masterpiece of human talent! To utter a falsehood in private life, to suit a private end, is
      to cut one's-self off from all honourable society:—but to lie day and night in a public
      journal—to lie habitually and boldly in print—to lie in a manner the most shameless and
      barefaced in the editorial columns of a newspaper, is not only admissible, but conventional,
      and a proof of skill, tact, and talent.  
  Thus is modern society constituted:—let him deny the truth of the picture who can!  
  London is filled with Mr. Greenwoods: they are to be found in numbers at the West End. Do
      not for one moment believe, reader, that our portrait of this character is exaggerated.  
  In pursuing the thread of a narrative like this, there will naturally be found much to
      alarm, to astonish, and to shock: but however appalling the picture, it teaches lessons which
      none can regret to learn. The chart that would describe the course to virtue must point out
      and lay bare the shoals, the quicksands, and the rocks of vice which render the passage
      perilous and full of terrors.  
  With these few remarks, we pursue our history. At seven o'clock in the evening of the day
      following the one on which we have seen Mr. Greenwood conducting his multifarious schemes and
      transactions with the precision of a minister of state, Count Alteroni arrived at that
      gentleman's house in Spring Gardens. He was shown into the elegantly furnished drawing-room,
      where Mr. Greenwood received him. The count was, however, the only one of all the financier's
      visitors who did not seem dazzled by the proofs of wealth and luxury that prevailed around.
      The Italian nobleman remarked these indications of great riches, and considered them the
      guarantees of Mr. Greenwood's prosperous position in the world: but, apart from this view of
      the splendour and sumptuousness of the mansion, he neither appeared astonished nor struck with
      admiration. The truth was, that Mr. Greenwood's abode, with all its magnificent decorations
      and ornaments, its costly furniture, and its brilliant display of plate, was a mere hovel
      compared to the count's own palace at Montoni, the capital city of Castelcicala.  
  Mr. Greenwood and the count had not exchanged many words, ere dinner was announced. The
      banquet, although only provided for the founder of the feast and his one guest, was of a most
      magnificent description, every luxury which London could produce appearing upon the table.  
  At half-past eight o'clock, the clerk of Mr. Greenwood's solicitor arrived, and was
      introduced into the dining-room. He had brought with him a deed by which Greenwood bound
      himself to be answerable to Count Alteroni for the sum of fifteen thousand pounds, which the
      latter had placed in the hands of the former for the purpose of speculation in a certain
      Steam-packet Company, Greenwood recognising his responsibility towards the count to the above
      extent whether the company should succeed or not, it having been originally agreed that he
      (Greenwood) should incur all risks, as he had undertaken the sole direction of the enterprise.
      This deed was signed by George M. Greenwood, witnessed by the attorney's clerk, and handed to
      Count Alteroni.  
  The clerk then withdrew.  
  Mr. Greenwood ordered a bottle of the very best Burgundy to be opened, and drank a bumper to
      the health of the Signora Isabella.  
  Scarcely was this toast disposed of, when Lafleur entered the room, and said, "A courier
      with despatches from your correspondents in Paris, sir, has just arrived, and requests to see
      you instantly. I have shown him into the study."  
  "Very good," exclaimed Mr. Greenwood, suddenly assuming a business air. "Will you excuse me,
      count, for a few minutes?"  
  "I shall take my leave, since you are likely to be much occupied," said the nobleman.  
  "On the contrary—pray remain—I insist upon it! I shall not be long with this messenger,"
      cried Mr. Greenwood: "and we must empty another bottle before I allow you to take your
      departure."  
   that, instead of a courier from Paris, he should there find Tom the
      Cracksman.  
  Nor was he mistaken. That individual was sitting very comfortably in an arm-chair near the
      fire, gazing around him, and wondering, amongst other things, where the master of the house
      kept his strong-box.  
  "You are known, I believe," said Greenwood, carefully closing the door, "as the
      Cracksman?"  
  "That's my title, sir—for want of a better," answered the villain.  
  "You are, perhaps, astonished that I have sent for you here," continued Greenwood: "but I
      wish a certain service performed this very night, and for which I will pay you liberally."  
  "What's the natur' of the sarvice?" demanded the Cracksman, darting a keen and penetrating
      glance at Greenwood.  
  "A highway robbery," coolly answered this individual.  
  "Well, that's plain enow," said the Cracksman. "But first tell me how you come to know of
      me, and where I was to be seen: because how can I tell but what this is all a plant of yours
      to get me into trouble?"  
  "I will answer you candidly and fairly. A few years ago, when I first entered on a London
      life, I determined to make myself acquainted with all the ways of the metropolis, high or low,
      virtuous or vicious. I disguised myself on several occasions, in very mean clothes, and
      visited all the flash houses and patter-cribs—amongst others, the boozing-ken on Great
      Saffron-hill. There you were pointed out to me; and your skill, your audacity, and your
      extraordinary luck in eluding the police, were vaunted by the landlord of that place in no
      measured terms."  
  "Well—this is singular:—blow me if it ain't!" cried the Cracksman. "Another person found me
      out jist in the same way this wery morning, only, and he wants a little private job done for
      him. But that's for to-morrow night. Howsomever, I never blab to one, of what I have done or
      am going to do for another. You to-night—him to-morrow night! Arter all, the landlord's a fool
      to talk so free: how did he know you wasn't a trap in disguise?"  
  "Because I told him that my object was merely to see life in all its shapes: and I was then
      so very young I could scarcely have been considered dangerous. However, I have occasionally
      indulged in such rambles, even very lately; and only a few weeks ago I looked in at the
      boozing-ken dressed as a poor countryman. There I saw you again; and I overheard you say to a
      friend of yours whom you called the Buffer, that you were generally there every evening to see
      what was going on."  
  "All right!" cried the Cracksman. "Now what's the robbery, and what's the reward?"  
  "Are you man enough to do it alone?"  
  "I'm man enow to try it on; but if so be the chap is stronger than me——"  
  "He is a tall, powerful person, and by no means likely to surrender without a desperate
      resistance."  
  "Well, all that can be arranged," said the Cracksman, coolly. "Not knowing what you wanted
      with me, I brought two of my pals along with me, and they're out in the street, or in the
      alley leading into the park. If there'd been anythink wrong on your part, they would either
      have rescued me, or marked you and your house for future punishment."  
  "I am glad that you have your companions so near. Of course they will assist you?"  
  "In anythink. The Resurrection Man and the Buffer will stick to me like bricks."  
  "Very good. I will now explain to you what I want done. Between eleven and twelve o'clock a
      gentleman will leave London for Richmond. He will be in his own cabriolet, with a tiger, only
      twelve years old, behind. The cab is light blue—the wheels streaked with white. This is
      peculiar, and cannot be mistaken. The horse is a tall bay, with silver-mounted harness. This
      gentleman must be stopped; and every thing his pockets contain—every thing, mind—must be
      brought to me. Whatever money there may be about him shall be yours; and I will add fifty
      guineas to the amount:—but all that you find about his person, save the money, must be handed
      over to me."  
  "I understand," said the Cracksman. "Does he carry pistols?"  
  "I should imagine not."  
  "Never mind: the Resurrection Man has got couple of barkers. But supposing he shouldn't come
      at all—what then?"  
  "You shall have twenty guineas for your loss of time. Here are ten as an earnest."  
  "That's business," said the Cracksman. "Any more instructions?"  
  "No. I need scarcely say that no unnecessary violence is to be used?"  
  "Leave all that to me. You will sit up and wait for me?"  
  "Yes. Give a low single knock at the door, and the same servant who sought you out last
      night, and let you in just now, will admit you again."  
  The Cracksman gave a significant nod and took his departure.  
  Mr. Greenwood returned to the dining-room, where he had left the count.  
  "My news from Paris is of the most satisfactory nature," he observed. "My correspondents in
      that city, moreover, promise me their best support in our new enterprise."  
  "I am delighted to hear that your letters have pleased you," said the count.  
  The two gentlemen then broached another bottle of Burgundy; and Mr. Greenwood conversed with
      even more sprightliness than usual. Indeed, the count fancied that he had never found his host
      so agreeable and entertaining.  
  At eleven o'clock precisely, the count's cabriolet was announced; and the nobleman took his
      departure, with the conviction, that, under his present circumstances, Mr. Greenwood was the
      most eligible suitor for the hand of Isabella that was likely to present himself.  
  As soon as the count had taken his departure, Mr. Greenwood rang for his slippers and
      dressing-gown, drew close to the cheerful fire that burnt in the grate, and ordered Lafleur to
      make him a tumbler of the best pine-apple rum-punch. This exhilarating beverage and a fragrant
      Havannah cigar enabled Mr. Greenwood to pass the time away in a most comfortable and
      soul-soothing manner.  
  And it was thus that he mused as he watched the pale blue transparent smoke of his cigar
      wreathing upwards to the ceiling:—  
   false cards to produce me thousands at a stake. I once purchased my coat for
      twelve shillings in Holywell-street; there is not now a tailor at the west-end who will not
      give credit to George Greenwood. My wealth purchases me every kind of pleasure. I can afford
      to bestow a thousand guineas upon the woman, who, daughter of a peer, and wife of a baronet,
      throws herself into my arms. One single scheme produces me ten times that amount. And
      Isabella—beauteous Isabella shall be my wife. I shall receive no dowry with her, it is
      true—because I have obtained all her father's fortune in advance;—but I shall be proud to
      introduce a lovely wife—the daughter of a count, and descended from a long line of ancestry,
      in that fashionable sphere to which I must henceforth belong. I shall be a member of
      parliament: Lord Tremordyn can easily obtain for me a baronetcy in due time;—and then, the
      peerage is not a height   too   difficult to aspire to! Oh! if with a coronet upon my
      brow, and Isabella by my side, I can drive in my chariot to——"  
  Lafleur entered the room at this moment, and handed a letter to his master. Greenwood opened
      it, and read as follows:—  
  
  "I have done your bidding in every particular up to the present moment. Louisa set off this
       afternoon for Birmingham, having received a letter stating that her only sister is at the
       point of death in that town. You will of course understand by whom that letter was written. I
       have, moreover, invented an excuse, relative to the date of the departure of the New York
       packets from Liverpool, by which means I am enabled to remain in London without exciting the
       suspicions of Eliza. I shall pass to-morrow evening with her. You may rely upon being
       admitted at midnight."  
  
  Greenwood full well understood the meaning of this note without a signature; and its
      contents tended to augment that happiness which the success of his schemes infused into his
      breast.  
  Hour after hour passed away;—at length midnight sounded; and all the servants, save Lafleur,
      were dismissed to their sleeping apartments.  
  The cigars, the rum-punch, and the pleasurable reflections into which the financier plunged,
      made the time elapse rapidly. One o'clock struck; and he had not found a single moment
      tedious. He was not anxious, nor a prey to suspense, as other men would have been; he felt
      certain that his wishes would be accomplished, and he was therefore as composed as if he had
      already been assured of their success.  
  The clock struck two; and a low knock was heard at the front door. Lafleur answered the
      summons; and in a few moments introduced the Cracksman to the room where his master was
      sitting.  
  "All right, sir," said that worthy, the moment Lafleur had withdrawn.  
  "And no violence, I hope?" cried Greenwood.  
  "Not a bit," returned the Cracksman. "We was as gentle as lambs. We on'y pitched the small
      boy into a dry ditch that was by the side of the road; and as for the gentleman, I just tapped
      him over the head with the butt of a pistol to keep him quiet; but I did it myself to make
      sure that it wasn't done too hard."  
  "You surely have not murdered him?" said Greenwood, his whole countenance suddenly convulsed
      with horror.  
  "Don't be afeard; he was on'y stunned—you may take my word for that," returned the
      Cracksman, coolly. "But here's all the papers we found in his pocket; and as for his purse—it
      had but a few pounds in it."  
  Mr. Greenwood received the papers from the hands of the Cracksman, and observed with a
      glance that amongst them was the document which he had given a few hours previously to
      guarantee the safety of the fifteen thousand pounds placed in his hands by Count Alteroni.  
  "You are sure," he said, with some uneasiness depicted upon his countenance, "that there is
      no danger to be apprehended from the blow——"  
  "Danger be d——d!" cried the Cracksman; "I know from experience exactly what kind o' blow
      will stun, or break a limb, or kill outright. I'll forfeit my reputation if there's any harm
      in that there whack which I gave to-night."  
  "We must hope that you are right in your conjecture," said Greenwood;—then, taking his purse
      from his pocket, he counted down forty-two sovereigns upon the table, adding, "That will make
      up the fifty guineas promised."  
  The Cracksman consigned the money to his fob, and then took leave of his employer, hoping
       "  that he should have his custom in future  ."  
  The moment he was gone, Greenwood thrust the document, which he had thus got back by a crime
      of an infamous nature, into the fire. When it was completely consumed, he proceeded to examine
      the other papers. These consisted chiefly of letters written in cypher, addressed to Count
      Alteroni, and bearing the post-mark of Montoni, Castelcicala: the rest were notes and
      memoranda of no consequence whatever.  
  Mr. Greenwood, being unable to unriddle the letters written in cypher, and considering that
      they were upon political subjects with which he had little or no interest, consigned the
      entire packet of papers to the flames.  
  He then retired to rest, and slept as soundly as if his entire day had been passed in
      virtuous deeds.  
  At about ten o'clock in the morning he received the following letter from Richmond:—  
  
  "  My Dear Mr. Greenwood  ,  
  "As I was on my way home last evening, I was suddenly attacked by three villains in a dark
       and lonely part of the road. One of the miscreants stunned me with the blow of a pistol, and
       threw the little jockey into a ditch. Fortunately we are neither of us seriously injured. The
       robbers plundered me of every thing I had about my person—my purse containing thirty-four
       sovereigns, and all my papers, amongst which was the security I had received from your hands
       a few hours before. You will perhaps have another drawn.  
  "I do not think it is worth while to make any disturbance relative to the matter, as, in
       consequence of the darkness of the night, I should be totally unable to recognise the
       miscreants.  
  "Yours faithfully,  
  
  "ALTERONI."    
  
   of my desires and my vengeance with regard to that haughty fair one of the
      villa!"  
  
  CHAPTER L. THE DRUGGED WINE-GLASS.  
  RETURN we once more to the villa at Upper Clapton.  
  Eliza Sydney's household consisted only of Louisa and a peasant girl of about fifteen. She
      no longer kept horses and dogs, as she was compelled by Stephens to do during the time of her
      disguise, previously to her imprisonment. She therefore required no male retainers, save an
      old gardener who lived in one of the out-houses.  
  A fictitious letter had caused the faithful Louisa to set out on a long journey; and thus
      the principal obstacle to the atrocious scheme of the conspirators against Eliza's peace and
      honour was removed.  
  At ten o'clock on the evening fixed for the perpetration of the foul deed, the servant-girl
      carried the supper-tray to the dining-room where Eliza and Stephens were seated. The domestic
      spread the table with the materials for the most sociable of all meals, and, having placed two
      decanters upon the hospitable board, withdrew.  
  The countenance of Stephens was particularly calm, considering the part he had undertaken to
      play towards a woman whose loveliness alone was sufficient to disarm the hand of enmity, and
      obtain the friendship of the most lawless. She had, moreover, already suffered so much through
      him,—she had extended towards him the hand of forgiveness and succour in his dire need,—and
      she possessed the most generous, the most noble, and the most confiding of dispositions. Oh!
      should not all these considerations have moved that man in her favour?  
  He had received from Eliza the hundred pounds which she had promised him. With that sum he
      might have found his way to America, and still had a considerable balance in his pocket. But
      he had determined to add to it the two hundred pounds more which Greenwood had promised
      him.  
  Although calm, he was very thoughtful.  
  "You seem unhappy?" said Eliza, observing the pensive air of her guest. "Surely you cannot
      regret your approaching departure from a land where your safety is so fearfully
      compromised?"  
  "And yet the land of which you speak is the one of my birth; and when once I have left it, I
      may reckon upon being destined to see it never again."  
  "Yes—it is hard to bid an eternal adieu to one's native country. And yet," continued Eliza,
      "there is but little to wed the sensitive mind to England. Since my release I have passed
      nearly all my time in reading; and I am shocked to perceive, from the information I have
      gleaned, that England is the only civilized country in the world where death from
      starvation—literal starvation, is common. Indeed, it is an event of such frequent occurrence,
      that it actually ceases to create astonishment, and almost fails to excite dismay. There must
      be something radically wrong in that system of society where all the wealth is in the hands of
      a few, and all the misery is shared by millions."  
  "You would then, quit England without much regret?" said Stephens.  
  "For myself," answered Eliza, "I abhor a country in which poverty and destitution prevail to
      such a fearful extent, while there is so much to spare in the hands of the favoured few. I
      sometimes look forth from the window, and survey that mighty city which stretches over plain,
      hill, and valley, and which is ever extending its mighty arms—as if in time it would embrace
      the entire island:—I gaze upon it at that hour in the morning when the eternal cloud is raised
      for a little space from its brow; and, as I mark the thousand spires which point up into the
      cool clear sky, I tremble—I feel oppressed as with a weight, when I reflect upon the hideous
      misery, the agonising woe, the appalling sorrow that want entails upon the sons and daughters
      of toil in that vast Babylon."  
  "And do you not suppose that the same destitution prevails in the other great cities of
      Europe?"  
  "Certainly not. Were a person to die of actual starvation in Paris, the entire population
      would rise up in dismay. With all our immense and cumbersome machinery of Poor Laws, there is
      more real wretchedness in these islands than in any other country upon the face of the earth,
      not even excepting the myriads who dwell upon the rivers in China."  
  "The topic is calculated to distress you, because you enter so deeply and feelingly into
      it," said Stephens. "Take a glass of wine—it will compose you."  
  Stephens filled two glasses with Port wine; and almost at the same moment he exclaimed,
      "What a bad light the lamp gives this evening." Then, in a feigned attempt to raise the wick,
      he turned the screw the wrong way, and extinguished the light.  
  "How awkward I am!" he cried; and, while Eliza hastened to re-light the lamp, he poured a
      few drops from a phial into one of the glasses of wine.  
  The lamp was lighted once more; and Eliza had resumed her seat.  
  Stephens handed her the fatal glass.  
  "May all health and happiness attend you," he said: "and may God reward you for your
      generosity towards me."  
  The words did not stick in his throat as he gave them utterance.  
  "And may you prosper in another clime," exclaimed Eliza in a tone which proved that the wish
      came from the bottom of her heart.  
  She then drank a portion of the wine in her glass.  
  The countenance of Stephens did not change as Eliza imbibed the soporific fluid. He
      contemplated her beauteous face with as much calmness as if he had just administered to her a
      potion calculated to embellish her charms, and add to her health and happiness.  
  "Either my taste deceives me," said Eliza, placing the half-emptied glass upon the table;
      "or this wine has some defect which I cannot understand."  
  "No—it is excellent," returned Stephens.  
  "I drink so little that I scarcely know the proper taste," observed Eliza. "The pure spring
      water is my favourite beverage."  
  "It is considered an unlucky omen to leave unfinished the glass in which you pledge the
      health of one who is about to traverse the ocean," said Stephens.  
  "In that case," answered Eliza, with a smile, "I will relieve your superstitious fears;" and
      she drained her glass.  
  Half an hour passed in conversation; and Eliza felt an irresistible drowsiness coming over
      her. She endeavoured to rally against it—but in vain; and at length she would have fallen from
      her chair fast asleep, had not Stephens rushed forward and caught her.  
    
  "Your mistress is unwell—she has been complaining all the evening; and she has now fallen
      into a profound sleep. I will assist you to convey her up stairs to her chamber."  
  Stephens and the servant carried the entranced lady to the boudoir.  
  Having placed her upon the bed, Stephens left the servant to undress her, and hastily
      descended to the hall. He opened the front door with caution, and whistled.  
  Two men emerged from the total darkness without, and glided into the hall. Stephens
      conducted them into a back parlour, and gave them the key to lock themselves in.  
  He himself then returned to the dining-room, where he tranquilly awaited the arrival of Mr.
      Greenwood.  
  Midnight was proclaimed at length.  
  A low knock at the front door fell upon Stephens's ear.  
  He hastened to obey the summons, and admitted Greenwood into the house.  
  They repaired to the dining-room together.  
  "Your wishes have been obeyed in all respects," said Stephens. "Eliza is in your power: the
      servant has retired to her own room. Give me my reward—for I am in a hurry to leave a dwelling
      to which my presence will have brought so much misery."  
  And yet this man did not seem appalled nor horror-struck at the infernal nature of the crime
      for which he thus demanded the recompense.  
  "You will await me here five minutes," said Greenwood; and he left the room.  
  At the expiration of that interval he returned, the fire of triumph and lust flashing from
      his eyes.  
  "It is all well—you have not deceived me," he observed in a tone of joy and exultation; "I
      have seen her, buried in a profound sleep—stretched like a beauteous statue in her voluptuous
      bed! The light of a lamp plays upon her naked bosom; the atmosphere of her chamber is soft,
      warm, and perfumed. Such charms are worth a kingdom's purchase! She is mine—she is mine: here
      is your reward!"  
  Greenwood handed a bank-note to his accomplice—or rather instrument in this atrocious
      proceeding; and Stephens then took his departure.  
  But as he passed through the hall, he thrust a letter, addressed to Eliza Sydney, beneath
      the carpet that covered the stairs.  
  The moment Greenwood was alone, he paced the dining-room for a few minutes, to feast his
      imagination with the pleasures of love and triumph which he now beheld within his reach.  
  "Yes—she is mine," he said: "she is mine—no power on earth can now save her! Oh! how will I
      triumph over the proud and haughty beauty, when to-morrow she awakes and finds herself in my
      arms. She will thrust her hand beneath the pillow for her long sharp dagger; it will not be
      there! She will extend her arm towards the bell-rope; it will be cut! And then she may
      rave—and weep—and reproach—and pray; I shall smile at her grief—her eyes will be more
      beautiful when seen through her tears! I shall compel her then to crave to be my mistress—she
      who refused to be my wife! Oh! what a triumph is within my reach!"  
  He paused; filled a tumbler half full of wine—and drank the contents at a draught.  
  "Now for my victory—now for the fruits of my intrigues!" he resumed. "But let me wait one
      moment longer! let me ask myself whether it be really true that the lovely Eliza Sydney will
      shortly bless my arms—that she is at this moment in my power. It is—it is; and I shall now no
      longer delay the enjoyment of that terrestrial paradise!"  
  With these words, he left the dining-room, and crossed the hall towards the staircase.  
  He was now about to ascend to the boudoir.  
  His foot was upon the first step, when he was rudely seized from behind, and instantly
      gagged with a pocket-handkerchief.  
  Turning his head partially round, in a vain effort to escape from the powerful grasp in
      which he found himself, he encountered, by the light of the lamp that hung in the hall, the
      glance of the Cracksman.  
  "The deuce!" exclaimed the burglar in a low and subdued tone: "this is a rum go! Working
         for   you last night, and   against   you to-night! But, never mind: we must
      fulfil our agreement, let it be what it will. I can however tell you for your satisfaction
      that we don't mean to hurt you. So come along quiet; and all will be right."  
  "What's the meaning of this, Tom?" said the Cracksman's companion, who was no other than the
      Resurrection Man: "you don't mean to say that you know this fellow?"  
  "He's the one that we did the job for last night on the Richmond road," answered the
      Cracksman.  
  "And he's got plenty of tin," added the Resurrection Man significantly. "We can perhaps make
      a better bargain with him than what Stephens has promised us for this night's business."  
  "Yes—but we can't talk here," returned the Cracksman: "so come along. I've got my plan all
      cut and dry."  
  Greenwood conveyed several intimations, by means of signs, that he wished to speak; but the
      two ruffians hurried him out of the house.  
  They conducted him across the fields to an empty barn at a distance of about a mile from the
      villa. During the journey thither they conversed together in a flash language altogether
      unintelligible to their captive, who was still gagged. A difference of opinion evidently
      seemed to subsist between the two men, relative to the plan which they should pursue with
      regard to Greenwood; but they at length appeared to agree upon the point.  
  With regard to Greenwood himself, he was a prey to a variety of painful
      feelings,—disappointment in his designs upon Eliza at the moment when he appeared to stand
      upon the threshhold of success,—bitter malignity against Stephens who had thus duped him,—and
      alarm at the uncertainty of the fate which might await him at the hands of the villains in
      whose power he thus strangely found himself.  
  The night was pitch-dark; but the moment the two ruffians with their captive entered the
      barn, a lantern in the hands of the Cracksman was suddenly made to throw a bright light
      forwards.  
  That light fell upon the countenance of Stephens, who was standing in the middle of the
      shed.  
  "All right," said the Cracksman. "We pinioned the bird without trouble; and he ain't a
      strange one, neither."  
  "What! do you mean that you know him?" demanded Stephens.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Well and good," said Stephens. "Tie him hand and foot."  
  The Cracksman and the Resurrection Man instantly obeyed this command: they threw Greenwood
      upon a truss of straw, and fastened his hands together, and then his feet, with strong
      cord.  
  "Here is your reward," said Stephens, as soon as this was accomplished. "I have now no more
      need of your services."  
  He handed them some money as he thus spoke; and, having counted it, the two villains bade
      him good night and left the barn, which was now enveloped in total darkness.  
  "Montague Greenwood," said Stephens, as soon as he was alone with his prisoner, "your design
      upon Eliza Sydney was too atrocious for even a man who has been knocked about in the world, as
      I have, to permit. You dazzled me with the promise of a reward which my necessities did not
      permit me to refuse;—and you moreover secured my co-operation by means of menaces. But I was
      determined to defeat your treacherous designs—to avenge myself for the threats which you
      uttered against me—and to obtain the recompense you had promised me, at the same time. How
      well I have succeeded you now know. The whole of yesterday morning did I wander amongst the
      sinks of iniquity and haunts of crime in Clerkenwell, and the neighbourhood of Saffron Hill;
      and accident led me into a low public house where I encountered two men who agreed to do my
      bidding. I tell you all this to convince you that never for a moment was I villain enough—bad
      though I may be—to pander to infamy of so deep a dye as that which you meditated. I have taken
      measures to acquaint the noble-hearted woman whose ruin you aimed at, with the entire history
      of this transaction, so that she may be upon her guard in future. With reference to you, here
      I shall leave you: in a few hours the labourers of the farm will no doubt discover you, and
      you will be restored to liberty when Eliza has awakened from her torpor, and I shall be far
      beyond the danger of pursuit."  
   barn, so as to prevent the captive from crawling away from the place.  
  This precaution being adopted, Stephens took his departure.  
  It would be impossible to describe the rage, vexation, and disappointment which filled the
      breast of Greenwood while Stephens addressed him in the manner described, and then bound him
      with the cord. Yet during this latter process he lay perfectly quiet—well aware that any
      attempt at escape on his part would at that moment be totally unavailing.  
  Five minutes elapsed after Stephens had left the barn, and Greenwood was marvelling within
      himself how long he should have to remain in that unpleasant position—bound with cords, and
      gagged in such a way that he could only breathe through his nostrils,—when the sounds of
      footsteps fell upon his ear, and the light of the Cracksman's lantern again flashed through
      the barn.  
  "Well, sir," said the Cracksman, "your   friend   is gone now; and so we can have a
      word or two together. You see, we couldn't help you afore, 'cos we was obliged to fulfil our
      agreement with the man which hired us for the evening. Now it is just likely that you may have
      to remain here for some hours if so be we don't let you loose; so tell us what you'll give us
      for cutting them cords."  
  The Cracksman removed the gag from Greenwood's mouth, as he uttered these words.  
  "I will give you my purse," exclaimed the discomfited financier, "if you will release me
      this moment. It contains ten or a dozen guineas."  
  "Thank'ee kindly," said the Cracksman, drily; "we've got that already. We helped ourselves
      to it as we came across the fields. Don't you see, we always make it a rule to have the
      plucking of all pigeons which we're hired to snare. You told us we might take all we found on
      the swell in the sky-blue cab; and that man with the sallow complexion that hired us to do
      this here business to-night, said, 'I will give you twenty pounds, and you can help yourselves
      to all you find about the gentleman you're to operate on.'"  
  "Call upon me to-morrow, and I will give you another twenty pounds to free me from these
      bonds," said Greenwood.  
  "That's only the price of a good corpse," said the Resurrection Man. "Make it thirty."  
  "Yes—make it thirty," added the Cracksman.  
  "Well—I will give you thirty guineas," cried Greenwood: "only delay not another instant. My
      limbs are stiffening with the cold and with the confinement of these accursed cords."  
  "Let it be thirty, then," said the Cracksman. "Here, Tony," he added, turning towards his
      companion, "hold this here light while I cut the cords. And while I think of it, Mr.
      Greenwood, I shan't call upon you for the money; but you'll send it to the landlord of the
      Boozing-ken, where your servant came and found me. Mind it's there by to-morrow night, or else
      you'll repent it—that's all. Blowed if we haven't had two good nights' work on it, Tony. But,
      my eye! wasn't I surprised yesterday when the man with the sallow face which hired us for
      to-night, told me that we was to come to that there villa yonder, and I found out as how it
      was the same that I'd cracked three year ago along with Bill Bolter and Dick Flairer. Arter
      all, there's been some curious things about all these matters—partickler our having to tackle
      to-night the wery gentleman which we served last night."  
  "Come—don't talk so much, Tom," said the Resurrection Man; "but let's make haste and be
      off."  
  "There—it's done," exclaimed the Cracksman, "the cords is all cut: you can get up, sir."  
  Greenwood arose from the straw upon which he had been lying, and stretched his limbs with as
      much pleasure as if he had just recovered from a severe cramp.  
  He then reiterated his promise to the two men relative to the reward to be paid for the
      service just rendered him; and, having inquired of them which was the nearest way to the West
      End, he set out upon his long and lonely walk home, depressed, disappointed, and hesitating
      between plans of vengeance against Stephens and fears of exposure in his own vile and defeated
      machinations with regard to the beautiful Eliza Sydney.  
  
  CHAPTER LI. DIANA AND ELIZA.  
  ON the morning following the events just narrated, Mrs. Arlington was seated at breakfast in
      a sweet little parlour of the splendid mansion which the Earl of Warrington had taken and
      fitted up for her in Dover Street, Piccadilly.  
  It was about eleven o'clock; and the Enchantress was attired in a delicious
         deshabillé  . With her little feet upon an ottoman near the fender, and her fine form
      reclining in a luxurious large arm-chair, she divided her attention between her chocolate and
      the columns of the   Morning Herald  . She invariably prolonged the morning's repast as
      much as possible, simply because it served to wile away the time until the hour for dressing
      arrived. Then visits received, filled up the interval till three or four o'clock, when the
      carriage came round to the door. A drive in the park, or shopping (according to the state of
      the weather) occupied the time until six or seven. Then another toilet in preparation for
      dinner. In the evening a   tête-à-tête   with the Earl of Warrington, who had, perhaps,
      arrived in time for dinner,—or a visit to a theatre, the Opera, or a concert,—and to bed at
      midnight, or frequently much later.  
  Such was the routine of the Enchantress's existence.  
  The Earl of Warrington behaved most liberally towards her. On the first day of every month
      he enclosed her a cheque upon his banker for two hundred guineas. He supplied her cellar with
      wine, and frequently made her the most splendid presents of jewellery, plate, cachmeres,
      &amp;c. The furniture for her mansion had cost fifteen hundred pounds; and all the bills were
      paid in her name. She was not extravagant, as women in her situation usually are; and
      therefore, so far from incurring debts, she saved money.  
  We cannot say that the Earl of Warrington positively   loved   her. His first
      affections in life had experienced such a blight, that they might almost be said to have been
      interred in the grave of defeated hopes and aspirations. He could therefore never
         love   again. But he   liked   politics (in which he was profoundly interested) and all those other little
      annoyances, real or imaginary, to which every one in this world is subject, be his condition
      never so prosperous!  
  And Diana   was   faithful to him. She was a woman naturally inclined to
      virtue:—circumstances had made her what she was. She looked upon the Earl of Warrington as a
      benefactor; and, although she did not actually   love   him more than he loved her, she
         liked   him upon pretty nearly the same principles that he liked her. Her vanity was
      flattered by having captivated and being able to retain a handsome man, whose wealth and high
      rank rendered him an object of desire on the part of all ladies situated as was Diana;—she
      moreover found him an agreeable companion, kind, and indulgent;—and thus their
         liaison   continued upon a basis which nothing appeared to threaten, nor even to
      weaken.  
  They never spoke of love in reference to their connection. The earl was never upon his knees
      at the feet of his mistress; nor did he repeat vows of constancy and fidelity every time he
      saw her. She acted on the same principle towards him. There was a great amount of real
      friendship and good feeling between those two;—but not an atom of mawkish sentimentality. The
      earl could   trust   Diana: he consulted her upon many of his plans and proceedings,
      whether in regard to his political career or the management of his estate; and she invariably
      tendered him the advice which appeared most consistent with his interests. He therefore placed
      the fullest confidence in her;—and hence have we seen her carrying out all his generous plans
      with reference to Eliza Sydney.  
  But to continue.  
  Mrs. Arlington was seated at breakfast, as we have before stated, when a servant entered and
      informed her that Miss Sydney requested a few minutes' conversation with her. Diana
      immediately ordered Eliza to be admitted.  
  "Pardon this early and unceremonious visit, my dear friend," said Eliza, affectionately
      grasping the hand that was stretched out to welcome her.  
  "I am always at home to you, Eliza," answered the Enchantress. "But how pale you are!
      Come—sit down here—close by me—and tell me in what way I can be of service to you."  
  "My dear friend," continued Eliza, "I have a secret to reveal to you—and a deed of infamy to
      narrate——"  
  "Oh! you alarm me, Eliza! Has any harm happened to yourself?"  
  "No, thank heavens! The compunction of one man saved me from disgrace and ruin. But read
      this—it will explain all."  
  With these words, Eliza handed to Mrs. Arlington the letter which Stephens had thrust under
      the stair-carpet at the villa on the preceding evening.  
  Diana perused the letter with attention; and a flash of indignation animated her fine
      countenance, as she thus made herself acquainted with the atrocious plot contrived by
      Greenwood against the honour of Eliza Sydney.  
  "Such is the villany of George Montague!" cried Diana at the termination of the perusal of
      that letter.  
  "Forgive me, dearest friend," said Eliza, taking the hand of Mrs. Arlington and pressing it
      between her own;—"forgive me if I have kept back one secret of my life from your knowledge.
      That George Montague—I once loved him!"  
  "You!" exclaimed Mrs. Arlington in surprise.  
  "Yes, Diana—I once loved that man—before the fatal exposure which led to my
      imprisonment;—but he behaved like a villain—he endeavoured to take advantage of my
      affection;—and I smothered the feeling in my bosom!"  
  "Oh! you did well—you did well thus to triumph over a passion which would have been fatal to
      your happiness;—for never would your hopes have been fulfilled—with honour to yourself," added
      Mrs. Arlington, sinking her voice almost to a whisper.  
  "Alas! you are right! I stood upon the brink of a precipice—I escaped;—but Montague, or
      Greenwood,—whichever he may choose to call himself,—pursues me with a view of accomplishing my
      dishonour."  
  "The crimes of that man are unlimited, and his perseverance is unwearied," said Diana.  
  "What plan can I adopt," demanded Eliza, "to escape his machinations? What system can I
      pursue to avoid his persecution? Conceive my affright when upon awaking this morning, I
      remembered that I had not retired to bed last evening of my own accord—that I could think of
      nothing that had occurred since supper-time! Then I found that the bell-rope in my
      sleeping-room was cut, and that a weapon which I have been in the habit of keeping beneath my
      pillow ever since I first dwelt in the villa, had disappeared! Oh! I was alarmed—I shuddered,
      although it was broad day-light, and every thing was calm and silent around. At length I
      summoned the servant—and she entered, bearing a letter which she had discovered a few moments
      before beneath the stair-carpet. That letter is the one you read ere now;—and it explained
      all. Tell me—tell me, Diana, how am I to avoid the persecution, and combat the intrigues of
      this man?"  
  "Alas! my dear friend," replied Mrs. Arlington, after a few minutes' consideration, "I know
      of no effectual method save that of leaving London."  
  "And if I leave London, I will leave England," said Miss Sydney. "But I can do nothing
      without the consent of him to whom I am under such deep obligations."  
  "You mean the Earl of Warrington," observed Mrs. Arlington. "I admire the sentiment of
      gratitude which animates you. The earl will do all he can to forward your views and contribute
      to your happiness. You shall pass the day with me, Eliza; here at least you are safe;—and I
      will immediately write a note to the earl, and request him to call upon me without delay."  
  "His lordship will be perhaps annoyed——"  
  "Fear nothing, Eliza. I will see the earl in another room. And let not this disinclination
      to meet you on his part, cause you pain: you well know the motive of his conduct. The memory
      of your mother——"  
  "I am well aware he can have no antipathy towards me, on my own account," interrupted Eliza;
      "else he could not have acted towards me in a way which claims all my gratitude!"  
  Mrs. Arlington dispatched the note to Lord Warrington, and then hastened to dress to receive
      him.  
  In an hour the earl arrived.  
  He and Mrs. Arlington were then closeted together for a considerable time.  
  It was four o'clock when the nobleman took his departure, and Diana returned to the room
      where she had left Eliza Sydney.  
   the best means of ensuring your tranquillity and safety; and we have decided
      that you had better quit England for a time. The perseverance of that bold bad man, backed by
      his wealth, may succeed in effecting your ruin—you yourself remaining innocent of guilty
      participation! The earl has recommended Italy as the country most likely to please you—and the
      more so because he himself possesses a charming villa in the State of Castelcicala."  
  "How kind of his lordship!" exclaimed Eliza, tears of gratitude starting into her eyes.  
  "Some years ago," continued Diana, "the earl set out upon a continental tour, and passed two
      years at Montoni, the capital of the Grand Duchy of Castelcicala. So charmed was he with that
      delightful city, that he purchased a small estate in the suburbs, with the idea of spending
      the summer from time to time amidst Italian scenery and beneath an Italian sky. The idea has,
      however, been displaced by others arising from new occupations and fresh interests; and for a
      long period has the villa at Montoni remained uninhabited, save by an old porter and his wife.
      The house is situate upon the banks of the river which flows through Montoni, and commands the
      most delicious views. That villa is to be your residence so long as it may be agreeable; and
      the earl will make arrangements with his London bankers so that your income may be regularly
      paid you by their agents at Montoni. His lordship has moreover instructed me to supply you
      with the necessary funds for your travelling expenses."  
  "Oh! my dearest friend, how can I ever testify my gratitude——"  
  "Not a word—not a word!" interrupted Mrs. Arlington, playfully closing Eliza's lips with her
      hand. "The earl conceives that he is performing a duty, sacred to the memory of his deceased
      uncle, in thus caring for you, who are the offspring of that uncle's daughter; and, on my
      part, Eliza—on my part, it is a pleasure to do you a service. But I have not yet finished. The
      earl has gone straight to Richmond, to call upon a certain Count Alteroni—a noble exile from
      the Grand Duchy of Castelcicala—with whom it appears the earl was acquainted in Italy. His
      object is to obtain for you a few letters of introduction to some of the best families of
      Montoni, so that you may not want society."  
  "I shall live in so retired a manner," said Eliza, "that this additional act of kindness was
      scarcely necessary."  
  "The earl will have his own way; and perhaps those letters may prove useful to you—who can
      tell?" exclaimed Mrs. Arlington. "But I must observe that I cannot think of parting with you
      any more until you leave England altogether. In three or four days the necessary preparations
      for your journey will be completed: meantime you must remain here as my guest. The earl
      himself recommended this step; that is," added Mrs. Arlington, "if my house be agreeable to
      you, and my society——"  
  "Oh! how can you entertain a doubt on that head?" cried Eliza, embracing Diana with the most
      grateful fervour. "Ah! it is but a few hours since I said how happy I should be to call you by
      the endearing name of   Sister  !"  
  "And would you not blush, Eliza, to call me your sister?" said Mrs. Arlington, in a tone
      deeply affected.  
  "Blush to call you my sister!" exclaimed Miss Sydney, as if she repelled the idea with
      indignation: "Oh! no—never, never! You are the most noble-hearted of women, and as such, I
      love—I revere you!"  
  "We will then be sisters in heart, although not in blood," said Diana, warmly returning her
      friend's embrace; "and perhaps our affection towards each other will be more sincere than that
      existing between many who are really the offspring of the same parents."  
  Mrs. Arlington gave directions to her servants that she was not "at home" to a soul, save
      the Earl of Warrington; and the ride in the park—the shopping—the theatre in the evening—all
      were sacrificed by Diana to the pleasure of Eliza's society.  
  Miss Sydney dispatched a note to the villa at Upper Clapton, announcing her intention of
      staying a few days with Mrs. Arlington. In the evening, Louisa, who had just returned from the
      journey on which the fictitious letter written by Stephens had sent her, made her appearance
      in Dover Street, with clothes, &amp;c. for her mistress, and she then received instructions
      relative to the intended departure for the Continent.  
  
  CHAPTER LII. THE BED OF SICKNESS.  
  RETURN we to the dwelling of Richard Markham on the same day that Eliza Sydney sought her
      friend Mrs. Arlington, as related in the preceding chapter.  
  Richard awoke as from a long and painful dream.  
  He opened his eyes, and gazed vacantly around him. He was in his own bed, and Whittingham
      was seated by his side.  
  "The Lord be praised!" ejaculated the faithful old domestic;—and conceiving it necessary to
      quote Scripture upon the occasion of this happy recovery, he uttered, in a loud and solemn
      voice, the first sentence which presented itself to his memory,—"My tongue is the pen of a
      ready writer!"  
  "How long have I been ill, Whittingham?" demanded our hero, in a faint tone.  
  "Four blessed days have you been devoided of your sensations, Master Richard," was the
      reply; "and most disastrous was my fears that you would never be evanescent no more. I have
      sustained my vigils by day and my diaries by night at your bed-side, Master Richard; and I may
      say, without mitigating against truth, that I haven't had my garments off my back since you
      was first brought home."  
  "Indeed, Whittingham, I am deeply indebted to you, my good friend," said Richard, pressing
      the faithful old domestic's hand. "But have I really been so very ill?"  
  "Ill!" exclaimed Whittingham; "for these four days you have never opened your eyes, save in
      delirium, until this moment. But you have been a ravaging in your dreams—and sobbing—and
      moaning so! I suppose, Master Richard, you haven't the most remotest idea of how you come home
      again?"  
  "Not in the least, Whittingham. All I recollect was, running along the Richmond Road, in the
      middle of the night—with a whirlwind in my brain—"  
  "And you must have fallen down from sheer fatigue," interrupted the butler; "for two drovers
      picked you up, and took you to a cottage close by. The people at the cottage searched your
      pockets and found your card, so they sent off a messenger to your own house, and I went in a
      po-shay, and fetched you home."  
  "And I have been ill four whole days!" cried Markham.  
  "Yes, but you don't know yet what has happened during that period," said the butler, with a
      solemn shake of the head.  
    
  "I'll repeat to you allegorically all that's incurred," resumed Whittingham, preparing to
      enumerate the various incidents upon his fingers. "In the first place—let me see—yes, it
         was   the first incurrence of any consequence—the old sow littered. That's annygoat
      the first. Then come a terrible buffoon—a tifoon, I mean—and down tumbled the eastern stack of
      chimbleys. That's annygoat the second. Third, the young water-cress gal was confined with a
      unlegitimated child; and so I told her mother never to let her call here again, as we didn't
      encourage immoral karikters. That's annygoat the third. Next, there's poor Ben Halliday, who
      wouldn't pay the pavement rate at Holloway, 'cause he hasn't got any pavement before his
      house, sold up, stick and stock; and so I gave him a couple of guineas. Annygoat the fourth.
      And last of all, a gentleman's livery servant—not that villain Yorkminster's, or whatever his
      name was—come with a horse and shay and left your pokmanty, without saying a word. That's
      anny—"  
  "My portmanteau!" exclaimed Richard, whose countenance was now suddenly animated with a ray
      of hope: "and have you unpacked it?"  
  "Not yet: I haven't had no time."  
  "Bring it to the bed-side, place it upon a couple of chairs, and open it at once," said
      Markham hastily. "Bestir yourself, good Whittingham: I am anxious to see if there be any
      note—any letter—any—"  
  While Richard uttered these words with a considerable degree of impatience, the butler
      dragged the portmanteau from beneath the bed, where he had deposited it, and placed it close
      to his master's right hand. It was speedily opened, unpacked, and examined throughout; the
      clothes and linen were unfolded; and Richard's eyes followed the investigation with the most
      painful curiosity. But there was no letter—no note from any inmate of the count's abode.  
  A sudden reminiscence entered his mind. Was the document signed at the   Dark House  
      amongst his papers? He recollected having handed it to the count; but he could not call to
      mind what had afterwards become of it. A moment's examination convinced him that it had not
      been returned to him. At first he was grievously annoyed by this circumstance;—in another
      minute he was pleased, for it struck him that, after all, its contents might have been perused
      by the count and his family when the excitement of that fatal night had worn off. But how to
      wipe away the dread suspicion raised by the Resurrection Man, relative to the burglary—oh!
      that was the most painful, and yet the most necessary task of all!  
  Markham sank back upon his pillow, and was lost in thought, when a low knock was heard at
      the door of his chamber. Whittingham answered it, and introduced Mr. Monroe.  
  The old man was the very picture of care and wretchedness:—the mark of famine was, moreover,
      upon his sunken cheeks. His eyes were dead and lustreless;—his neck, his wrists, and his hands
      seemed nothing but skin and bone. In spite of the cleanliness of his person, the thread-bare
      shabbiness of his clothes could not escape the eye of even the most superficial observer.  
  Markham had not seen him for some months; and now, forgetting his own malady and his own
      cares, he felt shocked at the dreadful alteration wrought upon the old man's person during
      that interval. On his part, Mr. Monroe was not less surprised to find Richard upon a bed of
      sickness.  
  "My dear sir," said Markham, "you are ill—you are suffering—and you do not come to me
      to—"  
  "What! you have penetrated my secret, Richard!" exclaimed the old man bitterly. "Well—I will
      conceal the truth no longer: yes—myself and my poor daughter—we are dying by inches!"  
  "My God! and you were too proud to come to me! Oh! how sincerely—how eagerly would I have
      offered you the half of all I possess—"  
  "How could I come to you, Richard," interrupted the old man, bursting into tears, "when I
      had already ruined you?"  
  "No—not you—not you," said Markham: "you were the victim of a scoundrel; and, in acting for
      the best, you lost all!"  
  "God knows how truly you speak!" cried the old man fervently. "But tell me—what ails you?
      and how long have you been upon a bed of sickness?"  
  "A day or two;—it is nothing! Never mind me—I am now well—at all events, much better:—let us
      talk of yourself and your own affairs."  
  "My fate, Richard, is a melancholy one—my destiny is sad, indeed! From the pinnacle of
      wealth and prosperity I have been dashed down to the lowest abyss of destitution and misery!
      But it is not for myself that I complain—it is not for myself that I suffer! I am by this time
      inured to every kind of disappointment and privation:—but my daughter—my poor Ellen! Oh! my
      God—it was for her sake that I came to you this morning to implore the wherewith to purchase a
      loaf of bread!"  
  "Merciful heavens, Mr. Monroe! are you reduced to this?" cried Richard, horror-struck at the
      piteous tale thus conveyed to him in a few words.  
  "It is true:—we are starving!" answered the old man, sinking into a chair, and sobbing
      bitterly.  
  Whittingham walked towards the window, and wiped his eyes more than once.  
  "Ah! I am glad you have come to me at last," said Markham. "I will assist you to the utmost
      of my power—I will never let you want again! Oh! that villain Montague! how many hearts has he
      already broken—how many more will he yet break!"  
  "He is the cause of all this deep—deep misery," observed Monroe. "But not alone by me is his
      name mentioned with loathing and horror: others have doubtless been, and will yet be, his
      victims. I have learnt—by the merest accident—that he has changed his name, and is now
      pursuing at the West End, the same course he so successfully practised in the City."  
  "Changed his name!" ejaculated Markham. "And what does he call himself now?"  
  "Greenwood," answered Mr. Monroe.  
  "Greenwood! George Montague and Greenwood one and the same person!" cried Richard, suddenly
      recalling to mind the name of the individual to whom the count had entrusted his capital. "Ah!
      you talk of new victims—I know one, whose ruin is perhaps by this time consummated.
      Quick—quick, Whittingham, give me writing materials: I will send a warning—although I am
      afraid it is already too late!"  
   at the idea of sending a note direct from himself, fearing that it might be
      thrown into the fire the moment its signature should be perceived, and thus fail in its
      proposed aim. To call upon the count was impossible: to send Mr. Monroe was disagreeable. To
      communicate the important intelligence was imperiously necessary. But how was it to be
      conveyed? An idea struck across his brain in this perplexity:—he would write to the countess,
      and trust to the natural curiosity of the female disposition to ensure the perusal of his
      letter. He accordingly penned the ensuing epistle:—  
  
  "  Madam  ,  
  "Although calumniated in the presence of Count Alteroni, without being permitted to justify
       myself; and although ruined in your estimation, without the freedom of explanation,—believe
       me, I have still the welfare of your family most sincerely at heart. As a proof of this
       assertion, allow me to inform you that the Mr. Greenwood, to whom Count Alteroni has
       entrusted his capital, is an adventurer and a villain. I on several occasions casually
       mentioned to you that I was plundered of all my property, before I became of an age entitled
       to enjoy it. My guardian Mr. Monroe, employed a certain Mr. Allen to speculate for him; and
       this Mr. Allen was mercilessly robbed of all he possessed, and all he could raise, and all
       his friends who backed him could provide him with, by a miscreant of the name of Montague.
       These particulars, which I never mentioned to you before, I now deem it requisite to acquaint
       you with. Madam, that same George Montague is your Mr. Greenwood!  
  "I remain, Madam, your obedient servant,  
  
  "RICHARD MARKHAM.  "  
  
  This letter was dispatched that same evening to Richmond.  
  
  CHAPTER LIII. ACCUSATIONS AND EXPLANATIONS.  
  It was seven o'clock in the evening.  
  Count Alteroni was sipping his claret; the countess was reading a new German novel; and the
      Signora Isabella was sitting in a pensive and melancholy mood, apparently occupied with some
      embroidery or other fancy-work, but in reality bent only upon her own painful reflections.  
  The air of this charming girl was languishing and sorrowful; and from time to time a tear
      started into her large black eye. That crystal drop upon the jet fringe of her eye-lid, seemed
      like the dew hanging on the ebony frame of a window.  
  The delicate hue of the rose which usually coloured her cheeks, and appeared as it were
      beneath the complexion of faint bistre which denoted her Italian origin, had fled; and her
      sweet vermilion lips were no longer wreathed in smiles.  
  "Isabel, my love," said the count, "you are thoughtful this evening. What a silly girl you
      are to oppose that tyrannical little will of your own to my anxious hopes and wishes for your
      welfare—especially as I must know so much better than you what is for your good and what is
      not."  
  "I think," answered Isabella, with a deep sigh, "that I oppose no tyrannical will to your
      lordship's commands."  
  "Lordship's commands!" repeated the count, somewhat angrily. "Have I not ordered our rank
      and station to be forgotten here—in England? And as for commands, Bella," added the nobleman,
      softening, "I have merely expressed my wish that you should give Mr. Greenwood an opportunity
      of proving his disinterested affection and securing your esteem—especially on the occasion of
      our approaching visit to our friends the Tremordyns."  
  "My dear papa," answered the signora, "I have faithfully promised you that if Mr. Greenwood
      should gain my affections, he shall not sue in vain for my hand."  
  "That is a species of compromise which I do not understand," exclaimed the count. "Have you
      any particular aversion to him?"  
  "I have no aversion—but I certainly have no love," replied Isabella firmly; "and where there
      is not love, dear father, you would not have me wed?"  
  "Oh! as for love," said the count, evading a direct reply to this query, "time invariably
      thaws away those stern resolves and objections which young ladies sometimes choose to
      entertain, in opposition to the wishes of their parents."  
  "My lord, I have no power over volition," exclaimed Isabella, with difficulty restraining
      her tears.  
  "This is very provoking, Isabella—very!" said the count, drinking his claret with rapidity.
      "This man is in every way worthy of you—rich, genteel, and good-looking. As for his rank—it is
      true that he has no title: but of what avail to us are rank and title—exiled as we are from
      our native land—"  
  "Oh! my dear father!" cried Isabella, wiping her eyes; "do not fancy so ill of me as to
      suppose that I languish for rank, or care for honour! No—let me either possess that title
      which is a reflection of your own when in Castelcicala;—or let me be plain Signora Isabella in
      a foreign land. Pomp and banishment—pride and exile, are monstrous incongruities!"  
  "That is spoken like my own dear daughter," exclaimed the count. "The sorrows of my own lot
      are mitigated by the philosophy and firmness with which you and your dear mother support our
      change of fortunes;—and, alas! I see but little chance of another re-action in our favour. O
      my dear country! shall I ever see thee more? Wilt thou one day recognise those who really love
      thee?"  
  A profound silence ensued: neither of the ladies chose to interrupt the meditations of the
      patriot; and he himself rose and paced the room with agitated steps.  
  "And it is this despair when I contemplate my future prospects," continued the nobleman,
      after a long pause, "that induces me to wish to see you speedily settled and provided for, my
      dearest Isabella. What other motive can I have but your good?"  
  "Oh! I know it—I know it, my dear father," cried the charming girl; "and it is that
      conviction which makes me wretched when I think how reluctant I am to obey you in this
      instance. But do not grieve yourself, my dear father—and do not be angry with me! I will be as
      civil and friendly as I can to this Mr. Greenwood; and if—and if——"  
  The beautiful Italian could say no more: her heart was full—almost to bursting; and throwing
      herself into her mother's arms, she wept bitterly.  
    
  "Bella, my darling," he exclaimed, "do not give way to grief: you cannot think that I would
      sacrifice you to gold—mere gold? No—never, never! Console yourself—you shall never be dragged
      a victim to the altar!"  
  "My dearest father," cried Isabella, turning towards the count and embracing him
      fondly,—"God, who reads all my actions, knows that I would make any sacrifice to please you—to
      spare you one pang—to forward your views! Oh! believe me, I am too well aware of the deep
      responsibility under which I exist towards my parents—too deeply imbued with gratitude for all
      your kindness towards me, not to be prepared to obey your wishes!"  
  "I will exact no sacrifice, dearest girl," said the count. "Compose yourself—and do not
      weep!"  
  At that moment a loud double knock at the front door resounded through the house; and
      scarcely had Isabella, recovered her self-possession, when Mr. Greenwood was announced.  
  "Ladies, excuse this late visit," said the financier, sailing into the room with his
      countenance wreathed into the blandest smiles; "but the truth is, I had business in the
      neighbourhood, and I could not possibly pass without stopping for a few moments at a mansion
      where there are such attractions."  
  These last words were addressed pointedly to Isabella, who only replied to the compliment by
      a cold bow.  
  "Count," said Mr. Greenwood, now turning towards the nobleman, "I have not seen you since
      your adventure upon the highway! But I was delighted to learn that you had received no
      injury."  
  "My only regret is that I did not shoot the villains," answered the count. "Have you had
      another deed prepared, to replace the one stolen from me on that occasion?"  
  "I have given my solicitors the necessary instructions," answered Greenwood. "In a few
      days——"  
  "Every thing with you is in a few days, Greenwood," interrupted the count, somewhat
      pointedly. "That deed would not occupy one day to engross, now that the copy is at your
      attorney's office; and it would have been a mark of goodwill on your part—"  
  "Pray do not blame me!" exclaimed the financier, smiling so as to display his very white
      teeth, of which he seemed not a little proud. "I believe that for a man who has so much
      business upon his hands, and the interests of so many to watch and care for, I am as punctual
      to my appointments as most people."  
  "I do not speak of want of punctuality in keeping appointments," said the nobleman: "but I
      allude to the neglect of a matter which to you may appear trivial, but which to me is of
      importance."  
  "Oh! my dear count—we will repair this little error the day after to-morrow—or the next
      day," answered Mr. Greenwood: "I wish that every body was as regular and as punctual with me,
      as I endeavour to be with others; and that punctuality on my part, my dear sir, has been the
      origin of my fortune. I do not like to speak of myself, ladies—I hate egotism—but really," he
      added with another smile, "when one is attacked, you know——"  
  At that moment a domestic entered the room, and handed a letter to the countess, who
      immediately opened it, glanced towards the signature, and exclaimed almost involuntarily,
      "From Richard Markham!"  
  "Richard Markham!" cried Mr. Greenwood: "I thought I understood you that that gentleman had
      ceased to visit or correspond with you?"  
  "So I said—and so I shall maintain!" exclaimed the count. "My dear, we will return that
      letter without reading it."  
  "But I have already commenced the perusal of it," said the countess, without taking her eyes
      off the paper: "and——"  
  "Then read no more," cried the count, angrily.  
  "Excuse me—I shall read it all," answered the countess significantly: "and so will you."  
  "What means this?" ejaculated the count. "Have I lost all authority in my own house? Madam,
      I command you——"  
  "There—I have finished it, and I implore you to read it yourself. Its contents are highly
      important, and do not in any way relate to certain recent events. Indeed he has purposely
      avoided any thing which may appear obtrusive, either in the shape of explanation or
      apology."  
  The count took the letter with a very ill grace, and requested Mr. Greenwood's permission to
      read it. This was of course awarded; and the nobleman commenced the perusal. He had not,
      however, read many lines, before he gave a convulsive start, and looked mistrustfully upon Mr.
      Greenwood (who noticed his emotion), and hastily ran his eye over the remainder of the
      letter's contents.  
  He then folded up the letter, and appeared to be absorbed in deep thought for several
      moments. Mr. Greenwood saw that the note bore some allusion to himself, and prepared his mind
      for any explanation, or any storm.  
  The countess sate, pale and unhappy, in deep meditation; and the eyes of Isabella wandered
      anxiously from one to the other.  
  At length the count, in a tone which showed with how much difficulty he suppressed an
      outbreak of his irritated feelings, turned abruptly towards Mr. Greenwood, exclaiming, "Pray,
      sir, how long is it since you were acquainted with one George Montague?"  
  Mr. Greenwood was not taken at all aback. This was a question to which he was always liable,
      and for which he was constantly prepared. He accordingly answered, with his usual smile of
      complaisance, in the following manner:—  
  "Oh! my dear sir, I presume you are acquainted with the fact that my name was once Montague,
      since you ask me that question. I may also suppose that some one has communicated that
      circumstance to you with a desire to prejudice me in your opinion; but I can assure you that I
      have not changed my name for any sinister purpose. My only motive was the request of an old
      lady, who left me a considerable property some time ago, upon that condition."  
  "And you can also explain, perhaps, the nature of your dealings with a certain Mr. Allen?"
      demanded the count, staggered at the assurance with which Mr. Greenwood met an accusation that
      the nobleman imagined would have overwhelmed him with confusion.  
   cautious may over-speculate or miscalculate; and how can I be blamed more than
      another?"  
  "I will admit that a particular enterprise may fail," said the count: "but the writer of
      this letter explained to me on one or two occasions, enough to enable me to comprehend the
      whole machinery of fraud which you put into motion to obtain money from the public; and though
      he never mentioned any names until to-day, in his letter, I might——"  
  "Every man has his enemies," said Mr. Greenwood, calmly: "I cannot hope to be without mine.
      They may assert what they choose: upright and impartial men never listen to one-sided
      statements. But perhaps the writer of that letter——"  
  "He is the Mr. Markham of whom I have often spoken to you, and concerning whom you were
      always asking me questions. I could not conceive," proceeded the count, "why you were so
      curious to pry into his affairs, especially as when I mentioned you to him by the name of
      Greenwood, he did not seem to know any thing about you. But I can now well understand why
         you   should wish to know something of a man whom you ruined!"  
  "I ruined!" cried Mr. Greenwood, now excited for the first time since the commencement of
      this dialogue, and speaking with an air of unfeigned astonishment. "There must be some mistake
      in this! I never had any dealings with him in my life, which could either cause his ruin or
      establish his prosperity."  
  "You took very good care, it would appear, not to do the latter," said the count. "But
      probably Mr. Markham's letter will explain to you that which you appear to have
      forgotten."  
  Count Alteroni handed the letter to Mr. Greenwood, who perused its contents with intense
      interest and anxiety.  
  The count, the countess, and the signora watched his countenance as he read it. Proficient
      in the art of duplicity as he was,—skilled in all the wiles of hypocrisy and deceit, he could
      not conceal his emotions now. There was something in that letter which chased the colour from
      his cheeks, and convulsed his whole frame with extreme agony.  
  "This is indeed singular!" he murmured, turning the letter over and over in his hand. "Who
      would have suspected that Allen was merely an agent? who could have foreseen   where that
       blow was to strike  ? Strange—unaccountable concatenation of unfortunate
      circumstances!"  
  "Is the writer of that letter correct in his statement?" demanded the count imperiously.  
  "The information given to you by Mr. Markham, relative to the losses experienced by a
      certain Mr. Allen, is correct," returned Mr. Greenwood, apparently labouring under
      considerable excitement. "But, I take my God to witness, that, until this moment, I was
      unaware that either Mr. Monroe or Mr. Markham were in the remotest way connected with that
      affair; and I also solemnly protest that I would have given worlds sooner than have been the
      means of injuring either of them!"  
  "You admit, then, that you defrauded the people who at that time placed their funds in your
      hands?" said the count.  
  "I admit nothing of the kind," returned the financier, now recovering his presence of mind:
      "I admit nothing so base as your insinuation implies."  
  "Then wherefore were you so agitated when you perused that letter from Mr. Richard
      Markham?"  
  "Count Alteroni, I am not aware that I owe you any explanation of my own private feelings.
      It is true, I   was   agitated—and I am still deeply grieved, to think that my want of
      judgment and foresight in a certain speculation should have involved in ruin those whom I wish
      well! But I suffered as well as they—I lost as many thousands as they did," continued Mr.
      Greenwood, passing once more into that system of plausible, specious, and deceptive reasoning,
      which lulled so many suspicions, and closed the eyes of so many persons with regard to his
      real character: "and although I have done nothing for which I can be blamed by the world, I
      may still reproach myself when I find that others whom I care for have suffered by my
      speculations."  
  The count was staggered at this expression and honourable manifestation of feeling on the
      part of one whom he had a few minutes ago begun to look upon as a selfish adventurer, callous
      to all humane emotions and philanthropic sentiments.  
  Mr. Greenwood continued:—  
  "When that unfortunate speculation of mine took place, I was not so experienced in the
      sinuosities of the commercial and financial worlds as I am now.—I lost my all, and poverty
      stared me in the face."  
  Mr. Greenwood's voice faltered, although he was now once more uttering a tissue of
      falsehoods.  
  "But by dint of some good fortune and much hard toil and unwearied application to business,
      I retrieved my circumstances. Now, answer me candidly, Count Alteroni; is there any thing
      dishonourable in my career? Will you judge a man upon an   ex-parte   statement? Is not
      one story very good until another be told? Why, if all persons viewed their affairs constantly
      in the same light, would there be any business for the civil tribunals? Do not plaintiff and
      defendant invariably survey the point at issue between them under discrepant aspects? If they
      did not, wherefore do they go to law? You may allow Mr. Markham and Mr. Monroe to entertain
      their views; you will also permit me to enjoy mine?"  
  "Mr. Greenwood," said the count, "I am afraid I have been too severe—nay, even rude in my
      observations. You will forgive me?"  
  "My dear sir, say not another word," ejaculated the financier, chuckling inwardly at the
      triumphant victory which he had thus gained over the suspicions of the Italian nobleman.  
  At that moment a servant entered the room, and informed Count Alteroni "that the Earl of
      Warrington was in the drawing-room, and requested an interview, at which his lordship would
      not detain the count above ten minutes."  
  The count, having desired Mr. Greenwood not to depart until his return, and apologising for
      his temporary absence, proceeded to the drawing-room, where the Earl of Warrington awaited
      him.  
  The earl rose when the count entered the apartment; and that proud, wealthy, and high-born
      English peer wore an air of profound respect and deference, as he returned the salutation of
      the Italian exile.  
  "Your lordship," said the earl, "will, I hope, pardon this intrusion at so unseemly an
      hour——"  
  "The Earl of Warrington is always welcome," interrupted Count Alteroni; "and if I cannot
      give him so princely a reception in England as I was proud to do in Italy, it is my means and
      not my will, which is the cause."  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Name the matter in which my poor services can avail your lordship," returned the count,
      "and I pledge myself in advance to meet your wishes."  
  "My lord," said the Earl of Warrington, "I must inform your lordship that I am somewhat
      interested in a cousin of mine of the name of Eliza Sydney. This lady loved a man who was
      unworthy of her—a wretch whose pursuits are villany, and who enriches himself at the expense
      of the unwary and confiding. The heartless scoundrel to whom I allude, and the full measure of
      whose infamy was only exposed to me this day, has endeavoured to possess himself of the person
      of Eliza in a manner the most atrocious and cowardly. My lord, he employed a confederate to
      administer soporific drugs to her; but Providence moved that confederate's heart, and
      frustrated the damnable scheme."  
  "And can such conduct go unpunished in this land of excellent laws and unerring justice?"
      inquired the count.  
  "Ah! my lord," replied the earl, "this man is possessed of great wealth, and consequently of
      great influence; for, in England,   money   is   power  ! Moreover, the complete
      chain of evidence is wanting; and then exposure to the female in such a case is almost equal
      to a stigma and to shame! To continue my brief tale, my lord—this man, with a demon heart, is
      one who will persecute my cousin Eliza to the very death. A lady of my acquaintance, who can
      also tell a tale of the unequalled villany of this George Montague Greenwood——"  
  "What!" ejaculated the count; "do I hear aright? or do my ears deceive me? What name did you
      give the miscreant who administered opiate drugs to a woman with the foulest of motives?"  
  "George Montague Greenwood," repeated the earl.  
  "O God!" ejaculated the count, sinking back in his chair, and covering his face with his
      hands; "I thank thee that thou hast intervened, ere it was too late, to prevent that fearful
      sacrifice of my daughter!"  
  "Pardon me, my lord," exclaimed the earl, "if I have awakened any disagreeable
      reminiscences, or produced impressions——"  
  "Your lordship has done me an infinite service, in fully opening my eyes to the villany of a
      man whose damnable sophistry glosses over his crimes with so deceptive a varnish, that the
      sight is dazzled when contemplating his conduct."  
   hands of the English peer with the most friendly and grateful warmth.  
  "Another time, my lord," continued the Italian noble, "I will explain to you the cause of my
      present emotions. You will then perceive how confirmed a miscreant is this Greenwood. In the
      meantime tell me how I can aid your lordship?"  
  "I was about to inform you, my lord," continued the Earl of Warrington, "that Miss Sydney,
      alarmed and appalled at the persecution of this man, who seems to spare neither expense nor
      crime to accomplish any purpose upon which he has once set his mind, has determined to sojourn
      for a time upon the Continent. Your lordship is aware that I possess a humble villa in the
      suburbs of Montoni——"  
  "A beautiful residence, on the contrary," said the count; "and where," he added with a sigh,
      "in happier times I have partaken of your hospitality."  
  "Yes, your lordship has honoured me with your society at that retreat," said the earl, with
      a low and deferential bow. "It is to that villa that I now propose to despatch my cousin, in
      order that she may escape the persecutions and the plots of this vile Greenwood. The object of
      my present visit is to solicit your lordship for a few letters of introduction for Miss Sydney
      to some of those families in Montoni with whom she may experience the charms of profitable and
      intellectual society."  
  "With much pleasure," answered the count. "When does Miss Sydney propose to leave
      England?"  
  "The day after to-morrow, my lord."  
  "To-morrow evening your lordship shall receive the letters which Miss Sydney requires. They
      will of course be unsealed—both in observance of the rules of etiquette, and on account of the
      custom-house officers in the continental states; but your lordship will take care that they be
      not opened in England."  
  "I comprehend you, my lord. The incognito which your lordship chooses to preserve in this
      country shall not be disturbed by any indiscretion on the part of myself or of those connected
      with me."  
  The Earl of Warrington then took his leave.  
  The moment he had departed, the count rang the bell, and said to the servant who answered
      the summons, "Request Mr. Greenwood to favour me with his company in this
      room—  here  !"  
  In another minute the financier was introduced into the saloon which the count was pacing
      with uneven and agitated steps.  
  "Mr. Greenwood," said the Italian nobleman, "I think you recollect the subject of our
      conversation when I was called away by the visit of the Earl of Warrington?"  
  "Perfectly," answered the financier, who perceived that there was again something wrong. "I
      remember that you made many accusations against me, all of which I most satisfactorily
      explained—insomuch that you very handsomely apologised for the severity of your language."  
  "Then, sir," continued the count, with difficulty restraining his impatience while Mr.
      Greenwood thus delivered himself, "if you be really such an honourable and such an injured man
      as you would represent, and if you be really grieved when you hear that a fellow-creature has
      been ruined by the failure of your speculations, have the kindness to return me the money
      which I have confided to you, and I shall be inclined to think of you as you choose to think
      of yourself. To tell the truth, I am already sick of the uncertainty of speculation; and would
      rather withdraw from the enterprise altogether."  
  "Really, my dear sir," said Mr. Greenwood, "this demand is so very irregular—so exceedingly
      unbusiness-like——"  
  "We will not place it upon the footing of   business  , sir," interrupted the count
      emphatically; "we will place it upon the basis of   honour  ."  
  "Honour and business with me, my dear sir, are synonymous," said the financier with a
      smile.  
  "So much the better!" ejaculated the count: "I see that we shall not dispute over this
      matter. The whole is summed up in a few words: return me the money I have placed in your
      hands."  
  "These things cannot be done in a hurry, my dear sir," said Mr. Greenwood, playing with a
      very handsome gold guard-chain which festooned over his waistcoat.  
  "Either you have made away with my money, or you have it in your possession still,"
      exclaimed the count. "If you have it, give me a cheque upon your banker for the amount: if you
      have placed it out at interest, give me security.  
  "I must observe to you that the whole proceeding is most irregular," said Mr. Greenwood:
      "and the business requires mature reflection. Moreover, all my funds are locked up for the
      moment."  
  "Then how would you carry out the enterprise for which I embarked my capital?" demanded the
      count.  
  "You must be aware," replied the financier, "that capitalists—like me—always lay out their
      cash to the greatest advantage, and make use of bills and negotiable paper of various
      descriptions. Thus, I could build a dozen steam-packets in a few weeks, and pay for them all
      without actually encroaching upon my capital!"  
  "I understand you, sir," said the count: "and in order to meet your convenience, I am ready
      to receive the securities you mention, payable at early dates, instead of specie."  
  "Oh! well—that alters the question," cried Mr. Greenwood, an idea apparently striking him at
      that moment. "I am acquainted with one of the richest bankers in London—intimately acquainted
      with him: would you have any objection for him to take my place in respect to you, and become
      the holder of your capital—say for a period of six months?"  
  "Who is the banker?" asked the count.  
  "James Tomlinson," answered the financier.  
  "I know the name well. Are you serious in your proposal?"  
  "Call upon me to-morrow at twelve o'clock, and we will proceed together to Mr. Tomlinson's
      banking house in the City. I will have the whole affair arranged for you in the course of an
      hour after our arrival at his establishment."  
  "I rely upon your word, Mr. Greenwood," returned the count.  
  The financier then took his departure.  
  
  CHAPTER LIV. THE BANKER.  
    
  And well may the Londoner be proud of his city in numerous respects. It is the richest and
      the most powerful that the world has ever seen! The dingy back parlours in Lombard Street, the
      upstairs business rooms in Cheapside, and the warehouses with shutters half up the windows in
      Wood Street and its neighbourhood, are the mysterious places in which the springs of the
      finance and trade of a mighty empire are set in motion? Half a dozen men in the City can
      command in an hour more wealth than either Rome or Babylon had to boast of at the respective
      periods of their greatest prosperity. And neither Rome nor Babylon possessed drapers who
      cleared their fifty thousand a-year by selling gowns and shawls, nor sugar-bakers with a
      million in hard cash, nor grocers with a plum in each hand, nor brewers to whom the rise or
      fall of one halfpenny per pot in the price of beer makes a difference of forty thousand pounds
         per annum  ! Rome, Babylon, Thebes, and Carthage, could all have been purchased by the
      East India Company—with perhaps a mortgage upon the India Docks!  
  But the reader must not imagine that all which glitters is gold. Amongst the most splendid
      establishments in London, and those most wealthy in appearance, there are some in a hopeless
      state of insolvency. To one of these we shall now introduce those who may choose to accompany
      us thither.  
  The well-known banking-house of James Tomlinson was situated in Lombard Street. The
      establishment was not extensive; nor were there a great many clerks, because it did little
      agency business for country banks, but was chiefly a house of deposit. It enjoyed a high
      reputation, and was considered as safe as the presumed wealth, integrity, and experience of
      its proprietor were likely to render it. It was moreover believed that the father of James
      Tomlinson was a sleeping partner; and as the old gentleman had retired from the business of
      oilman with an immense fortune, the bank was presumed to possess every guarantee of stability.
      It had existed for upwards of sixty years, having been founded and most successfully carried
      on by an uncle of James Tomlinson. James himself had originally entered the establishment as a
      clerk, whence he rose to be a partner, and finally found himself at the head of the concern at
      his uncle's death.  
  James Tomlinson was not an extravagant man; but he was not possessed of the ability and
      experience for which the world gave him credit. In the year 1826, and at the age of forty, he
      found himself at the head of a flourishing and respectable establishment. He was indeed the
      sole proprietor, for his father was in reality totally unconnected with it as a partner. James
      was intimately acquainted with the mechanical routine of the bank business; but he was
      deficient in those powers of combination and faculties of foresight which were necessary to
      enable him to lay out to the best advantage the moneys deposited in his hands. With good
      intentions, he lacked talent. He was an excellent head clerk or junior partner; but he was
      totally unfitted for supreme management. Thus was it that in two or three years he experienced
      serious reverses; and, although he carefully concealed the failure of his operations from all
      human eyes, the very safety of his establishment was seriously compromised. The French
      Revolution of 1830 ruined a Paris house to which Tomlinson had advanced a considerable sum;
      and this blow consummated the insolvency of his bank.  
  He was then compelled to make a confidant of his cashier, an old and faithful servant of his
      uncle, and of frugal habits, and kind but eccentric disposition. Michael Martin was this
      individual's name. He was of very repulsive appearance, stooping in his gait, blear-eyed, and
      dirty in person. He took vast quantities of snuff; but as much lodged upon his shirt-frill and
      waistcoat as was thrust up his nose. Thus his linen was invariably filthy in the extreme. His
      dress was a suit of seedy black; and the right thigh of his trousers was brown and grimy with
      the marks of snuff—for upon that part of his attire did he invariably wipe his finger and
      thumb after taking a pinch of his brown rappee.  
  Such was the individual whom Tomlinson took into his confidence, when the affairs of the
      bank grew desperate. Old Martin was as close and reserved as if he were both deaf and dumb;
      and he was moreover possessed of a peculiar craftiness and cunning which admirably fitted him
      for the part that he was now to enact. Although it was next to impossible to retrieve the
      affairs of the bank, so great was the deficiency,—still Michael Martin assured his master that
      it was quite probable that they might be enabled to carry on the establishment for a length of
      time—perhaps even many years, the chances that the draughts upon the bank would not equal the
      deposits being in their favour.  
  Thus was this insolvent and ruined establishment carried on, with seeming respectability and
      success, by the perseverance of Tomlinson, and the skill and craft of old Martin.  
  We shall now introduce our readers into the parlour of the bank, at ten o'clock in the
      morning after the incidents related in the preceding chapter.  
  James Tomlinson had just arrived, and was standing before the fire, glancing over the City
      Article of   The Times  . He was a fine, tall, good-looking man, plainly dressed, and
      without the slightest affectation either in manner or attire. The bluntness and apparent
      straightforwardness of his character had won and secured him many friends amongst a class of
      men who regard frankness of disposition and plainness of demeanour as qualities indicative of
      solidity of position and regular habits of business. Then he was always at his post—always to
      be seen; and hence unlimited confidence was placed in him!  
  Having glanced over the newspaper which he held in his hand, he rang the bell. A clerk
      responded to the summons.  
  "Is Mr. Martin come yet?"  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "Tell him to step this way."  
  The clerk withdrew; and the old cashier entered the room, the door of which he carefully
      closed.  
  "Good morning, Michael," said the banker. "What news?"  
  "Worse and worse," answered the old man, with a species of savage grunt. "We have had a sad
      time of it for the last three months."  
  "For the last seven or eight years, you may say," observed Tomlinson, with a sigh; and then
      his countenance suddenly wore an expression of ineffable despair—as evanescent as it was
      poignant.  
  "At first the work was easy enough," said Michael: "a little combination and tact enabled us
      to struggle on; but latterly the concern has fallen into so desperate a condition, that I
      really fear when I come in the morning that it will never last through the day."  
  "My God! my God! what a life!" exclaimed Tomlinson. "And there are hundreds and thousands
      who pass up the street every day, and who say within themselves. '    ' Heavens! I would that I were a beggar in the street—a sweeper of a
      crossing—a pauper in a workhouse——"  
  "Come—this is folly," interrupted the old cashier impatiently. "We must go on to the
      end."  
  "What is the state of your book this morning?" demanded the banker, putting the question
      with evident alarm—almost amounting to horror.  
  "Three thousand four hundred pounds, eighteen shillings, in specie—sixteen hundred and
      thirty-five in notes," answered the cashier.  
  "Is that all!" ejaculated Tomlinson. "And this morning we have to pay Greenwood the two
      thousand pounds he lent me six weeks ago."  
  "We can't part with the money," said the cashier rudely. "Greenwood knows the circumstances
      of the bank, and must give time."  
  "You know what Greenwood is, Michael," exclaimed the banker. "If we are not punctual with
      him, he will never lend us another shilling and what should we have done without him on
      several occasions?"  
  "I know all that. But look at the interest be makes you pay," muttered the cashier.  
  "And look at the risk he runs," added the banker.  
  "He finds it worth his while. I calculated the other day that we paid him three thousand
      pounds last year for interest only: we can't go on much longer at that rate."  
  "I had almost said that the sooner it ends the better," cried Tomlinson. "What low
      trickery—what meanness—what abominable craft, have we been compelled to resort to! Oh! if that
      affair with the Treasury three years ago had only turned up well—if we could have secured the
      operation, we should have retrieved all our losses, enormous as they are—we should have built
      up the fortunes of the establishment upon a more solid foundation than ever."  
  "That was indeed a misfortune," observed the cashier, taking a huge pinch of snuff.  
  "And how the Chancellor of the Exchequer obtained his information about me—at the eleventh
      hour—after all previous inquiries were known to be satisfactory," continued Tomlinson, "I
      never could conjecture. At that time the secret was confined to you and me, and my father, to
      whom I communicated it, you remember, in that letter which I wrote to him soliciting the fifty
      thousand pounds."  
  "Which sum saved the bank at that period," observed Michael.  
  "Never shall I forget the day when I called at the Treasury for the decision of the
      government relative to my proposal," returned Tomlinson. "The functionary who received me,
      said in so pointed a manner, '  Mr. Tomlinson, you have not dealt candidly with us relative
       to your true position; your secret is known to us; but rest assured that, although we decline
       any negotiation with you, we will not betray you.  ' This announcement came upon me like a
      thunder-stroke: I was literally paralysed. The functionary added with a sort of triumphant and
      yet mysterious smile, '  There is not a secret connected with the true position of any
       individual of any consequence in the City which escapes our knowledge. The government, sir,
       is omniscient!  ' God alone can divine the sources of this intimate acquaintance with
      things locked up, as it were, in one's own bosom!" added the banker, thoughtfully.  
  "And this is not the only case in which such secrets have been discovered by the
      government," said the old cashier, again regaling his nose with a copious pinch of snuff.  
  "Yes, I myself have heard of other instances," observed the banker, with a shudder. "I have
      known great firms expend large sums of money to obtain particular information from Paris,
      Frankfort, and Madrid, by means of couriers; and this information has been despatched by
      letter to their agents at Liverpool and Manchester, and elsewhere, to answer certain
      commercial or financial purposes. Well, that information has been known to government within a
      few hours, and the government broker has bought or sold stock accordingly!"  
  "But how   could   the government obtain that information?" demanded Martin. "Some
      treachery——"  
  "No—impossible! The government has gleaned its knowledge when every human precaution against
      treachery and fraud was adopted. Look at my own case!" continued Tomlinson. "You, my father,
      and myself alone, knew   my   secret. On you I can reckon as a man can reckon upon his
      own self: my father was incapable of betraying me; and I of course should not have divulged my
      own ruin. And yet the secret became known to the government. I shudder, Michael—oh! I shudder
      when I think that we dwell in a country which vaunts its freedom, yet where there exists the
      secret, dark, and mysterious element of the most hideous despotism!"  
  At this moment a clerk entered, and informed the cashier that he was wanted in the public
      office.  
  As soon as Michael had disappeared, the banker walked up and down his parlour, a prey to the
      most maddening reflections. There were but five thousand pounds left in the safe; two thousand
      were to be paid to Greenwood; and every minute a cheque, or two or three cheques might be
      presented, which would crush the bank at one blow.  
  "One hundred and eighty thousand pounds of liability," murmured Tomlinson to himself, "and
      five thousand pounds to meet it!"  
  Ah! little thought those who passed by the banking-house at that moment, what heart-felt,
      horrible tortures were endured by the master of the establishment in his own parlour!  
  At length Martin returned.  
  His countenance never revealed any emotions; but he took snuff wholesale—and that was a
      fearful omen.  
  "Well?" said Tomlinson, in a hoarse and hollow voice.  
  "Alderman Phipps just drawn for twelve hundred pounds, and Colonel Brown for eight hundred,"
      replied the cashier.  
  "Two thousand gone in a minute!" ejaculated the banker.  
  "Shall I pay any more?" asked the cashier.  
  "Yes—pay, pay up to the last farthing!" answered Tomlinson. "An accident—a chance may save
      us, as oftentimes before! And yet methinks, Michael, that we never stood so near the verge of
      ruin as we do to-day."  
  "Never," said the old man coldly.  
  "And is there no expedient by which we can raise a few thousands, or even a few hundreds,
      for immediate wants?"  
  "None that I know of," returned Martin, taking more snuff.  
  At that moment Mr. Greenwood was announced, and Michael withdrew from the parlour.  
  "You have called for your two thousand pounds?" said the banker, after the usual interchange
      of civilities.  
   pay fifteen thousand at twelve o'clock to Count Alteroni."  
  "This is very unfortunate," observed Tomlinson. "I am literally in this position—take the
      money, and I must stop payment the next moment."  
  "That is disagreeable, no doubt," said Greenwood; "but the count is urgent, and I cannot put
      him off."  
  "My God!" cried Tomlinson; "what can I do? Greenwood—my good friend—I know you are rich—I
      know you can raise any amount you choose: pray do not push me this morning."  
  "What am I to do, my dear fellow?" said the financier: "I must satisfy this count—and I
      really cannot manage without the two thousand. I could let you have them again in a
      fortnight."  
  "A fortnight!" ejaculated the banker, clenching his fists; "to-morrow it might be too late.
      Can you suggest no plan? can you devise no scheme? Let me keep these two thousand pounds for
      six weeks longer—a month longer; and ask me—ask me what you will! I am desperate—I will do any
      thing you bid me!"  
  "Tell me how I can satisfy this ravenous Italian," said Greenwood, "and I will let you keep
      the money for six months."  
  "You say you have to settle with this count for fifteen thousand pounds?" inquired the
      banker.  
  Greenwood nodded an affirmative.  
  "And does he require it all in hard cash?"  
  "No—he will take the security of any responsible person, or apparently responsible person,"
      added the financier, with a significant smile, "payable in six months."  
  Tomlinson appeared to reflect profoundly.  
  His reverie was interrupted by the entrance of old Martin, taking snuff more vehemently than
      ever.  
  The cashier whispered something in the banker's ear, and then again retired.  
  "Seven hundred and fifty more gone!" cried Tomlinson: "and now, Greenwood, there remains in
      the safe but a fraction more than your two thousand pounds. Dictate your own terms!"  
  This was precisely the point to which the financier was anxious to arrive.  
  "Listen," he said, playing with his watch-chain. "This Count Alteroni will accept of you as
      his debtor instead of me. Take the responsibility off me on to your own shoulders, and I make
      you a present of the two thousand pounds!"  
  "What!" ejaculated Tomlinson; "incur a liability of fifteen thousand to this count!
      Greenwood, you never can be serious?"  
  "I never was more serious in my life," returned the financier coolly. "If you fail before
      the six months have elapsed, fifteen thousand more or less on your books will be nothing: if
      you contrive to carry on the establishment until the expiration of that period, I will help
      you out of the dilemma."  
  "You are not reasonable—you are anxious to crush me at once!" cried Tomlinson. "Well, be it
      so, Mr. Greenwood! Take your two thousand pounds——"  
  "And leave you to put up a notice on your doors—eh?" said Greenwood, still playing with his
      watch-chain.  
  "Ah! my God—has it come to this?" exclaimed the banker. "Ruin—disgrace—and beggary, all in
      one day! But better that than submit to such terms those which you dictate."  
  With these words he rang the bell violently.  
  Old Martin immediately made his appearance.  
  "Mr. Martin," said Tomlinson, affecting a calmness which he was far from feeling, "bring two
      thousand pounds for Mr. Greenwood."  
  "It can't be done," growled Michael, taking a huge pinch of snuff.  
  "Can't be done?" ejaculated the banker.  
  "No," answered the old man, doggedly: "just paid away four hundred and sixty-five more.
      There is'nt two thousand in the safe."  
  Tomlinson walked once up the room; then, turning to Greenwood, he said, "I will accept your
      proposal. Mr. Martin," he added, addressing the cashier, "you can retire: I will settle this
      matter with Mr. Greenwood."  
  The old man withdrew.  
  "When, where, and how is this business to be arranged?" demanded Tomlinson, after a short
      pause.  
  "The count is to call at my house at twelve. I have left a note to request him to come on
      hither."  
  "You had, then, already arranged this matter in your mind?" said the banker, ironically.  
  "Certainly," answered Greenwood, with his usual coolness. "I knew you would relieve me of
      this obligation; because I shall be enabled in return to afford you that assistance of which
      you stand so much in need."  
  "I must throw myself upon your generosity," said Tomlinson. "It is now twelve: the count
      will soon be here."  
  Half an hour passed away; and the Italian nobleman made his appearance.  
  "You see that I have kept my word, count," exclaimed Mr. Greenwood, with an ironical smile
      of triumph. "Mr. Tomlinson holds in his hands certain funds of mine, which, according to the
      terms of agreement between us, he is to retain in his possession and use for a period of six
      months and six days from the present day, at an interest of four per cent. If you, Count
      Alteroni, be willing to accept a transfer of fifteen thousand pounds of such funds in Mr.
      Tomlinson's hands from my name to your own, the bargain can be completed this moment."  
  "I cannot hesitate, Mr. Greenwood," said the count, "to accept a guarantee of such known
      stability at the name of Mr. Tomlinson."  
  "Then all that remains to be done," exclaimed the financier, "is for you to return me my
      acknowledgment for the amount specified, and for Mr. Tomlinson to give you his in its place.
      Mr. Tomlinson has already received my written authority for the transfer."  
  The business was settled as Mr. Greenwood proposed. The count returned the financier his
      receipt, and accepted one from the banker.  
  "Now, that this is concluded, count," said Mr. Greenwood, placing the receipt in his
      pocket-book, "I hope that our friendship will continue uninterrupted."  
  "Pardon me, sir," returned the count, his features assuming a stern expression: "although I
      am bound to admit that you have not wronged me in respect to money, you have dared to talk to
      me of my daughter, who is innocence and purity itself."  
  "Count Alteroni," began Mr. Greenwood, "I am not aware——"  
   having used such language in your apartment, and in your presence."  
  Count Alteroni bowed politely to the banker, and, darting a withering glance of mingled
      contempt and indignation upon the abashed and astounded Greenwood, took his departure.  
  "He talks of things which are quite new to me," said Greenwood, recovering an outward
      appearance of composure, though inwardly he was chagrined beyond description.  
  Tomlinson made no reply: he was too much occupied with his own affairs to be able to afford
      attention to those of others.  
  Greenwood shortly took his leave—delighted at having effectually settled his pecuniary
      obligation with the count, in such a manner that it could never again be the means of
      molestation in respect to himself,—but vexed at the discovery which the Italian nobleman had
      evidently made in respect to his conduct towards Eliza Sydney.  
  Immediately after Mr. Greenwood had left the bank-parlour, old Michael entered. This time he
      carried his snuff-box open in his left hand; and at every two paces he took a copious pinch
      with the fore-finger and thumb of his right. This was a fearful omen; and Tomlinson
      trembled.  
  "Well, Michael—well?"  
  "Not a deposit this morning. Draughts come in like wild-fire," said the old cashier. "There
      is but a hundred pounds left in the safe!"  
  "A hundred pounds!" ejaculated the banker, clasping his hands together: "and is it come to
      this at length, Michael?"  
  "Yes," said the cashier, gruffly.  
  "Then let us post a notice at once," cried Tomlinson: "the establishment must be closed
      without another moment's delay."  
  "Will you write out the notice of stoppage of payment, or shall I?" inquired Michael.  
  "Do it yourself, my good old friend—do it for me!" said the banker, whose countenance was
      ashy pale, and whose limbs trembled under him, as if he expected the officers of justice to
      drag him to a place of execution.  
  The old cashier seated himself at the table, and wrote out the announcement that the bank
      was unfortunately compelled to suspend its payments. He then read it to the ruined man who was
      now pacing the apartment with agitated steps.  
  "Will that do?"  
  "Yes," answered the banker; "but, in mercy, let me leave the house ere that notice be made
      public."  
  Tomlinson was about to rush distractedly out of the room, when the cashier was summoned into
      the public department of the establishment.  
  Five minutes elapsed ere his return—five minutes which appeared five hours to James
      Tomlinson.  
  At length the old man came back; and this time he did not carry his snuff-box in his
      hand.  
  Without uttering a word, he took the "notice of stoppage" off the table, crushed it in his
      hand, and threw it into the fire.  
  "Saved once more," he murmured, as he watched the paper burning to tinder; and when it was
      completely consumed, he took a long and hearty pinch of snuff.  
  "Saved!" echoed Tomlinson: "do you mean that we are saved again?"  
  "Seven thousand four hundred and sixty-seven pounds just paid in to Dobson and Dobbins's
      account," answered the cashier, coolly and leisurely, as if he himself experienced not the
      slightest emotion.  
  In another hour there were fifteen thousand pounds in the safe; and when the bank closed
      that evening at the usual time, this sum had swollen up to twenty thousand and some
      hundreds.  
  This day was a specimen of the life of James Tomlinson, the banker.  
  Readers, when you pass by the grand commercial and financial establishments of this great
      metropolis, pause and reflect ere you envy their proprietors! In the parlours and offices of
      those reputed emporiums of wealth are men whose minds are a prey to the most agonising
      feelings—the most poignant emotions.  
  There is no situation so full of responsibility as that of a banker—no trust so sacred as
      that which is confided to him. When he fails, it is not the ruin of one man which is
      accomplished: it is the ruin of hundreds—perhaps thousands. The effects of that one failure
      are ramified through a wide section of society: widows and orphans are reduced to beggary—and
      those who have been well and tenderly nurtured are driven to the workhouse.  
  And yet the law punishes not the great banker who fails, and who involves thousands in his
      ruin. The petty trader who breaks for fifty pounds is thrown into prison, and is placed at the
      tender mercy of the Insolvents' Court, which perhaps remands him to a debtor's gaol for a
      year, for having contracted debts without a reasonable chance of paying them. But the great
      banker, who commenced business with a hundred thousand pounds, and who has dissipated five
      hundred thousand belonging to others, applies to the Bankruptcy Court, never sees the inside
      of a prison at all, and in due time receives a certificate, which clears him of all his
      liabilities, and enables him to begin the world anew. The petty trader passes a weary time in
      gaol, and is then merely emancipated from his confinement—but not from his debts. His future
      exertions are clogged by an impending weight of liability. One system or the other is
      wrong:—decide, O ye legislators who vaunt "the wisdom of your ancestors," which should be
      retained, and which abolished,—or whether both should be modified!  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  In the course of the evening the Earl of Warrington called upon Mrs. Arlington, with whom he
      passed a few minutes alone in the drawing-room.  
  When his lordship had taken his departure, Diana returned to Eliza whom she had left in
      another apartment, and, placing a quantity of letters, folded, but unsealed, in her hands,
      said, "These are the means of introduction to some of the first families in Montoni. They are
      written, I am informed, by an Italian nobleman of great influence, and whose name will act
      like a talisman in your behalf. They are sent unsealed according to usage; but the earl has
      earnestly and positively desired that their contents be not examined in this country. He gave
      this injunction very seriously," added Diana, with a smile, "doubtless because he supposed
      that he has to deal with two daughters of Eve whose curiosity is invincible. He, however,
      charged me to deliver this message to you as delicately us possible."  
  "These letters," answered Eliza, glancing over their superscriptions, "are addressed to
      strangers and not to me; and although I know that they refer to me, I should not think of
      penetrating into their contents, either in England or elsewhere. But did you express to the
      earl all the gratitude that I feel for his numerous and signal deeds of kindness?"  
   replied Mrs. Arlington. "Can you suppose that I would forget to paint all you
      experience for what he has already done, and what he will still do for you? He will see you
      for a moment ere your departure to-morrow, to bid you farewell."  
  "I appreciate that act of condescension on his part," observed Eliza, affected even to
      tears, "more than all else that he has ever yet done for me!"  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  On the following day Eliza Sydney, accompanied by the faithful Louisa, and attended by an
      elderly valet who had been for years in the service of the Earl of Warrington, took her
      departure from London, on her way to the Grand Duchy of Castelcicala.  
  
  CHAPTER LV. MISERRIMA!!!  
  WE now come to a sad episode in our history—and yet one in which there is perhaps less
      romance and more truth than in any scene yet depicted.  
  We have already warned our reader that he will have to accompany us amidst appalling scenes
      of vice and wretchedness:—we are now about to introduce him to one of destitution and
      suffering—of powerful struggle and unavailing toil—whose details are so very sad, that we have
      been able to find no better heading for our chapter than   miserrima  , or "very
      miserable things."  
  The reader will remember that we have brought our narrative, in preceding chapters, up to
      the end of 1838:—we must now go back for a period of two years, in order to commence the
      harrowing details of our present episode.  
  In one of the low dark rooms of a gloomy house in a court leading out of Golden Lane, St.
      Luke's, a young girl of seventeen sate at work. It was about nine o'clock in the evening; and
      a single candle lighted the miserable chamber, which was almost completely denuded of
      furniture. The cold wind of December whistled through the ill-closed casement and the broken
      panes, over which thin paper had been pasted to repel the biting chill. A small deal table,
      two common chairs, and a mattress were all the articles of furniture which this wretched room
      contained. A door at the end opposite the window opened into another and smaller chamber: and
      this latter one was furnished with nothing, save an old mattress. There were no blankets—no
      coverlids in either room. The occupants had no other covering at night than their own
      clothes;—and those clothes—God knows they were thin, worn, and scanty enough!  
  Not a spark of fire burned in the grate;—and yet that front room in which the young girl was
      seated was as cold as the nave of a vast cathedral in the depth of winter.  
  The reader has perhaps experienced that icy chill which seems to strike to the very marrow
      of the bones, when entering a huge stone edifice:—the cold which prevailed in that room, and
      in which the young creature was at work with her needle, was more intense—more
      penetrating—more bitter—more frost-like than even that icy chill!  
  Miserable and cheerless was that chamber: the dull light of the candle only served to render
      its nakedness the more apparent, without relieving it of any of its gloom. And as the cold
      draught from the wretched casement caused the flame of that candle to flicker and oscillate,
      the poor girl was compelled to seat herself between the window and the table, to protect her
      light from the wind. Thus, the chilling December blast blew upon the back of the young
      sempstress, whose clothing was so thin and scant—so very scant!  
  The sempstress was, as we have before said, about seventeen years of age. She was very
      beautiful; and her features, although pale with want, and wan with care and long vigils, were
      pleasing and agreeable. The cast of her countenance was purely Grecian—the shape of her head
      eminently classical—and her form was of a perfect and symmetrical mould. Although clothed in
      the most scanty and wretched manner, she was singularly neat and clean in her appearance; and
      her air and demeanour were far above her humble occupation and her impoverished condition.  
  She had, indeed, seen better days! Reared in the lap of luxury by fond, but too indulgent
      parents, her education had been of a high order; and thus her qualifications were rather
      calculated to embellish her in prosperity than to prove of use to her in adversity. She had
      lost her mother at the age of twelve; and her father—kind and fond, and proud of his only
      child—had sought to make her shine in that sphere which she had then appeared destined to
      adorn. But misfortunes came upon them like a thunderbolt: and when poverty—grim poverty stared
      them in the face—this poor girl had no resource, save her needle! Now and then her father
      earned a trifle in the City, by making out accounts or copying deeds;—but sorrow and
      ill-health had almost entirely incapacitated him from labour or occupation of any kind;—and
      his young and affectionate daughter was compelled to toil from sun-rise until a late hour in
      the night to earn even a pittance.  
  One after another, all their little comforts, in the shape of furniture and clothing,
      disappeared; and after vainly endeavouring to maintain a humble lodging in a cheap but
      respectable neighbourhood, poverty compelled them to take refuge in that dark, narrow, filthy
      court leading out of Golden Lane.  
  Such was the sad fate of Mr. Monroe and his daughter Ellen.  
  At the time when we introduce the latter to our readers, her father was absent in the City.
      He had a little occupation in a counting house, which was to last three days, which kept him
      hard at work from nine in the morning till eleven at night, and for which he was to receive a
      pittance so small we dare not mention its amount! This is how it was:—an official assignee
      belonging to the Bankruptcy Court had some heavy accounts to make up by a certain day: he was
      consequently compelled to employ an accountant to aid him; the accountant employed a petty
      scrivener to make out the balance-sheet; and the petty scrivener employed Monroe to ease him
      of a portion of the toil. It is therefore plain that Monroe was not to receive much for his
      three days' labour.  
  And so Ellen was compelled to toil and work, and work and toil—to rise early, and go to bed
      late—so late that she had scarcely fallen asleep, worn out with fatigue, when it appeared time
      to get up again;—and thus the roses forsook her cheeks—and her health suffered—and her head
      ached—and her eyes grew dim—and her limbs were stiff with the chill!  
  And so she worked and tolled, and toiled and worked.  
  We said it was about nine o'clock in the evening.  
   in that cheerless chamber there was not a morsel of bread!  
  And for sixteen hours had that poor girl fasted already; for she had eaten a crust at five
      in the morning, when she had risen from her hard cold couch in the back chamber. She had left
      the larger portion of the bread that then remained, for her father; and she had assured him
      that she had a few halfpence to purchase more for herself—but she had therein deceived him!
      Ah! how noble and generous was that deception;—and how often—how very often did that poor girl
      practise it!  
  Ellen had risen at five that morning to embroider a silk shawl with eighty flowers. She had
      calculated upon finishing it by eight in the evening; but, although she had worked, and
      worked, and worked hour after hour, without ceasing, save for a moment at long intervals to
      rest her aching head and stretch her cramped fingers, eight had struck—and nine had struck
      also—and still the blossoms were not all embroidered.  
  It was a quarter to ten when the last stitch was put into the last flower.  
  But then the poor creature could not rest:—not to her was it allowed to repose after that
      severe day of toil! She was hungry—she was faint—her stomach was sick for want of food; and at
      eleven her father would come home, hungry, faint, and sick at stomach also!  
  Rising from her chair—every limb stiff, cramped, and aching with cold and weariness—the poor
      creature put on her modest straw bonnet with a faded riband, and her thin wretched shawl, to
      take home her work.  
  Her employer dwelt upon Finsbury Pavement; and as it was now late, the poor girl was
      compelled to hasten as fast as her aching limbs would carry her.  
  The shop to which she repaired was brilliant with lamps and gas-lights. Articles of great
      variety and large value were piled in the windows, on the counters, on the shelves. Upwards of
      twenty young men were busily employed in serving the customers. The proprietor of that
      establishment was at that moment entertaining a party of friends up stairs, at a champagne
      supper!  
  The young girl walked timidly into the vast magazine of fashions, and, with downcast eyes,
      advanced towards an elderly woman who was sitting at a counter at the farther end of the shop.
      To this female did she present the shawl.  
  "A pretty time of night to come!" murmured the shopwoman. "This ought to have been done by
      three or four o'clock."  
  "I have worked since five this morning, without ceasing," answered Ellen; "and I could not
      finish it before."  
  "Ah! I see," exclaimed the shopwoman, turning the shawl over, and examining it critically;
      "there are fifty or sixty flowers, I see."  
  "Eighty," said Ellen; "I was ordered to embroider that number."  
  "Well, Miss—and is there so much difference between sixty and eighty?"  
  "Difference, ma'am!" ejaculated the young girl, the tears starting into her eyes; "the
      difference is more than four hours' work!"  
  "Very likely, very likely, Miss. And how much do you expect for this?"  
  "I must leave it entirely to you, ma'am."  
  The poor girl spoke deferentially to this cold-hearted woman, in order to make her generous.
      Oh! poverty renders even the innocence of seventeen selfish, mundane, and calculating!  
  "Oh! you leave it to me, do you?" said the woman, turning the shawl over and over, and
      scrutinising it in all points; but she could not discover a single fault in Ellen's work. "You
      leave it to me? Well, it isn't so badly done—very tolerably for a girl of your age and
      inexperience! I presume," she added, thrusting her hand into the till under the counter, and
      drawing forth sixpence, "I presume that this is sufficient."  
  "Madam," said Ellen, bursting into tears, "I have worked nearly seventeen hours at that
      shawl—"  
  She could say no more: her voice was lost in sobs.  
  "Come, come," cried the shopwoman harshly, "no whimpering here! Take up your money, if you
      like it—and if you don't, leave it. Only decide one way or another, and make haste!"  
  Ellen took up the sixpence, wiped her eyes, and hastily turned to leave the shop.  
  "Do you not want any more work?" demanded the shopwoman abruptly.  
  The fact was that the poor girl worked well, and did not "shirk" labour; and the woman knew
      that it was the interest of her master to retain that young creature's services.  
  Those words, "Do you not want any more work?" reminded Ellen that she and her father must
      live—that they could not starve! She accordingly turned towards that uncouth female once more,
      and received another shawl, to embroider in the same manner, and at the same price!  
  Eighty blossoms for sixpence!  
  Sixteen hours' work for sixpence!!  
  A farthing and a half per hour!!!  
  The young girl returned to the dirty court in Golden Lane, after purchasing some food,
      coarse and cheap, on her way home.  
  On the ground-floor of a house in the same court dwelt an old woman—one of those old women
      who are the moral sewers of great towns—the sinks towards which flow all the impurities of the
      human passions. One of those abominable hags was she who dishonour the sanctity of old age.
      She had hideous wrinkles upon her face; and as she stretched out her huge, dry, and bony hand,
      and tapped the young girl upon the shoulder, as the latter hurried past her door, the very
      touch seemed to chill the maiden even through her clothes.  
  Ellen turned abruptly round, and shuddered—she scarcely knew why—when she found herself
      confronting that old hag by the dim lustre of the lights which shone through the windows in
      the narrow court.  
  That old woman, who was the widow of crime, assumed as pleasant an aspect as her horrible
      countenance would allow her to put on, and addressed the timid maiden in a strain which the
      latter scarcely comprehended. All that Ellen could understand was that the old woman suspected
      how hardly she toiled and how badly she was paid, and offered to point out a more pleasant and
      profitable mode of earning money.  
  Without precisely knowing why, Ellen shrank from the contact of that hideous old hag, and
      trembled at the words which issued from the crone's mouth.  
  "You do not answer me," said the wretch. "Well, well; when you have no bread to eat—no
      work—no money to pay your rent—and nothing but the workhouse before you, you will think better
      of it and come to me."  
  Thus saying, the old hag turned abruptly into her own den, the door of which she banged
      violently.  
   cage, poor Ellen hastened to her own miserable abode.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  She placed the food upon the table, but would not touch it until her father should return.
      She longed for a spark of fire, for she was so cold and so wretched—and even in warm weather
      misery makes one shiver! But that room was as cold as an ice-house—and the unhappiness of that
      poor girl was a burden almost too heavy for her to bear.  
  She sate down, and thought. Oh! how poignant is meditation in such a condition as hers. Her
      prospects were utterly black and hopeless.  
  When she and her father had first taken those lodgings, she had obtained work from a
      "middle-woman." This middle-woman was one who contracted with great drapery and upholstery
      firms to do their needle-work at certain low rates. The middle-woman had to live, and was
      therefore compelled to make a decent profit upon the work. So she gave it out to poor
      creatures like Ellen Monroe, and got it done for next to nothing.  
  Thus for some weeks had Ellen made shirts—with the collars, wristbands, and fronts all well
      stitched—for four-pence the shirt.  
  And it took her twelve hours, without intermission, to make a shirt: and it cost her a penny
      for needles, and thread, and candle.  
  She therefore had three-pence for herself!  
  Twelve hours' unwearied toil for three-pence!!  
  One farthing an hour!!!  
  Sometimes she had made dissecting-trousers, which were sold to the medical students at the
      hospitals; and for those she was paid two-pence halfpenny each.  
  It occupied her eight hours to make one pair of those trousers!  
  At length the middle-woman had recommended her to the linen-draper's establishment on
      Finsbury Pavement; and there she was told that she might have plenty of work, and be well
      paid.  
  Well paid!  
  At the rate of a farthing and a half per hour!!  
  Oh! it was a mockery—a hideous mockery, to give that young creature gay flowers and blossoms
      to work—she, who was working her own winding-sheet!  
   perhaps stern to the wretchedness of others—how could that old hag possess the
      means of teaching her a pleasant and profitable mode of earning money? The soul of Ellen was
      purity itself—although she dwelt in that low, obscene, filthy, and disreputable neighbourhood.
      She seemed like a solitary lily in the midst of a black morass swarming with reptiles!  
  The words of the old woman were therefore unintelligible to that fair young creature of
      seventeen:—and yet she intuitively reproached herself for pondering upon them. Oh! mysterious
      influence of an all-wise and all-seeing Providence, that thus furnishes warnings against
      dangers yet unseen!  
  She tried to avert her thoughts from the contemplation of her own misery, and of the
      tempting offer made to her by the wrinkled harridan in the adjoining house; and so she busied
      herself with thinking of the condition of the other lodgers in the same tenement which she and
      her father inhabited. She then perceived that there were others in the world as wretched and
      as badly off as herself; but, in contradiction to the detestable maxim of Rochefoucauld—she
      found no consolation in this conviction.  
  In the attics were Irish families, whose children ran all day, half naked, about the court
      and lane, paddling with their poor cold bare feet in the puddle or the snow, and apparently
      thriving in dirt, hunger, and privation. Ellen and her father occupied the two rooms on the
      second floor. On the first floor, in the front room, lived two families—an elderly man and
      woman, with their grown-up sons and daughters; and with one of those sons were a wife and
      young children. Eleven souls thus herded together, without shame, in a room eighteen feet
      wide! These eleven human beings, dwelling in so swine-like a manner, existed upon twenty-five
      shillings a week, the joint earnings of all of them who were able to work. In the back chamber
      on the same floor was a tailor, with a paralytic wife and a complete tribe of children. This
      poor wretch worked for a celebrated "Clothing Mart," and sometimes toiled for twenty hours
      a-day—never less than seventeen, Sunday included—to earn—what?  
  Eight shillings a week.  
  He made mackintoshes at the rate of one shilling and three-pence each; and he could make one
      each day. But then he had to find needles and thread; and the cost of these, together with
      candles, amounted to nine-pence a week.  
  He thus had eight shillings remaining for himself, after working like a slave, without
      recreation or rest, even upon the sabbath, seventeen hours every day.  
  A week contains a hundred and sixty-eight hours.  
  And he worked a hundred and nineteen hours each week!  
  And earned eight shillings!!  
  A decimal more than three farthings an hour!!!  
  On the ground floor of the house the tenants were no better off. In the front room dwelt a
      poor costermonger, or hawker of fruit, who earned upon an average seven shillings a week, out
      of which he was compelled to pay one shilling to treat the policeman upon the beat where he
      took his stand. His wife did a little washing, and perhaps earned eighteen-pence. And that was
      all this poor couple with four children had to subsist upon. The back room on the ground floor
      was occupied by the landlady of the house. She paid twelve shillings a week for rent and
      taxes, and let the various rooms for an aggregate of twenty-one shillings. She thus had nine
      shillings to live upon, supposing that every one of her lodgers paid her—which was never the
      case.  
  Poor Ellen, in reflecting in this manner upon the condition of her neighbours, found herself
      surrounded on all sides by misery. Misery was above—misery below: misery was on the right and
      on the left. Misery was the genius of that dwelling, and of every other in that court. Misery
      was the cold and speechless companion of the young girl as she sate in that icy chamber:
      misery spread her meal, and made her bed, and was her chambermaid at morning and at night!  
  Eleven o'clock struck by St. Luke's church; and Mr. Monroe returned to his wretched abode.
      It had begun to rain shortly after Ellen had returned home; and the old man was wet to the
      skin.  
  "Oh! my dear father!" exclaimed the poor girl, "you are wet, and there is not a morsel of
      fire in the grate!"  
  "And I have no money, dearest," returned the heart-broken father, pressing his thin lips
      upon the forehead of his daughter. "But I am not cold, Nell—I am not cold!"  
  Without uttering a word, Ellen hastened out of the room, and begged a few sticks from one
      lodger, and a little coal from another. It would shame the affluent great, did they know how
      ready are the miserable—miserable poor to assist each other!  
  With her delicate taper fingers—with those little white hands which seemed never made to do
      menial service, the young girl laid the fire; and when she saw the flame blazing cheerfully up
      the chimney, she turned towards the old man—and smiled!  
  She would not for worlds have begged any thing for herself—but for her father—oh! she would
      have submitted to any degradation!  
  And then for a moment a gleam of something like happiness stole upon that hitherto mournful
      scene, as the father and daughter partook of their frugal—very frugal and sparing meal
      together.  
  As soon as it was concluded, Ellen rose, kissed her parent affectionately, wished him "good
      night," and retired into her own miserable, cold, and naked chamber.  
  She extinguished her candle in a few moments, to induce her father to believe that she had
      sought repose; but when she knew that the old man was asleep, she lighted the candle once
      more, and seated herself upon the old mattress, to embroider a few blossoms upon the silk
      which had been confided to her at the establishment in Finsbury.  
  From the neighbouring houses the sounds of boisterous revelry fell upon her ears. She was
      too young and inexperienced to know that this mirth emanated from persons perhaps as miserable
      as herself, and that they were only drowning care in liquor, instead of encountering their
      miseries face to face. The din of that hilarity and those shouts of laughter, therefore made
      her sad.  
  Presently that noise grew fainter and fainter; and at length it altogether ceased. The clock
      of St. Luke's church struck one; and all was then silent around.  
  A lovely moon rode high in the heavens; the rain had ceased, and the night was beautiful—but
      bitter, bitter cold.  
    
  While she was thus endeavouring to divert her thoughts from the appalling miseries of earth
      to the transcendent glories of heaven, she was diverted from her mournful reverie by the sound
      of a window opening in a neighbouring house; and in a few moments violent sobs fell upon her
      ears. Those sobs, evidently coming from a female bosom, were so acute, so heart-rending, so
      full of anguish, that Ellen was herself overcome with grief. At length those indications of
      extreme woe ceased gradually, and then these words—"Oh my God! what will become of my starving
      babes!" fell upon Ellen's ears. She was about to inquire into the cause of that profound
      affliction, when the voice of a man was heard to exclaim gruffly, "Come—let's have no more of
      this gammon: we must all go to the workus in the morning—that's all!" And then the window was
      closed violently.  
  The workhouse! That word sounded like a fearful knell upon Ellen's ears. Oh! for hours and
      hours together had that poor girl meditated upon the sad condition of her father and herself,
      until she had traced, in imagination, their melancholy career up to the very door of the
      workhouse. And there she had stopped: she dared think no more—or she would have gone mad,
      raving mad! For she had heard of the horrors of those asylums for the poor; and she knew that
      she should be separated from her father on the day when their stern destinies should drive
      them to that much-dreaded refuge. And to part from him—from the parent whom she loved so
      tenderly, and who loved her so well;—no—death were far preferable!  
  The workhouse! How was it that the idea of this fearful home—more dreaded than the prison,
      less formidable than the grave—had taken so strong a hold upon the poor girl's mind? Because
      the former tenant of the miserable room which now was hers had passed thence to the workhouse:
      but ere she went away, she left behind her a record of her feelings in anticipation of that
      removal to the pauper's home!  
  Impelled by an influence which she could not control—that species of impulse which urges the
      timid one to gaze upon the corpse of the dead, even while shuddering at the aspect of
      death—Ellen closed the window, and read for the hundredth time the following lines, which were
      pencilled in a neat hand upon the whitewashed wall of the naked chamber:—  
  
    "I HAD A TENDER MOTHER ONCE.  "  
  I HAD a tender mother once,  
  Whose eyes so sad and mild  
  Beamed tearfully yet kindly on  
  Her little orphan child.  
  A father's care I never knew;  
  But in that mother dear,  
  Was centred every thing to love,  
  To cherish, and revere!  
  I loved her with that fervent love  
  Which daughters only know;  
  And often o'er my little head  
  Her bitter tears would flow.  
  Perhaps she knew that death approached  
  To snatch her from my side;  
  And on one gloomy winter day  
  This tender mother died.  
  They laid her in the pauper's ground,  
  And hurried o'er the prayer:  
  It nearly broke my heart to think  
  That they should place her there.  
  And now it seems I see her still  
  Within her snowy shroud;  
  And in the dark and silent night  
  My spirit weeps aloud.  
  I know not how the years have passed  
  Since my poor mother died;  
  But I too have an orphan girl,  
  That grows up by my side.  
  O God! thou know'st I do not crave  
  To eat the bread of sloth:  
  I labour hard both day and night,  
  To earn enough for both!  
  But though I starve myself for her,  
  Yet hunger wastes her form:—  
  My God! and must that darling child  
  Soon feed the loathsome worm?  
  'Tis vain—for I can work no more—  
  My eyes with toil are dim;  
  My fingers seem all paralyzed,  
  And stiff is every limb!  
  And now there is but one resource;  
  The pauper's dreaded doom!  
  To hasten to the workhouse, and  
  There find a living tomb.  
  I know that they will separate  
  My darling child from me;  
  And though 'twill break our hearts, yet both  
  Must bow to that decree!  
  Henceforth our tears must fall apart,  
  Nor flow together more;  
  And from to-day our prayers may not  
  Be mingled as before!  
  O God! is this the Christian creed,  
  So merciful and mild?  
  The daughter from the mother snatched,  
  The mother from her child!  
  Ah! we shall ne'er be blessed again  
  Till death has closed our eyes,  
  And we meet in the pauper's ground  
  Where my poor mother lies.—  
  Though sad this chamber, it is bright  
  To what must be our doom;  
  The portal of the workhouse is  
  The entrance of the tomb!  
  
  Ellen read these lines till her eyes were dim with tears. She then retired to her wretched
      couch; and she slept through sheer fatigue. But dreams of hunger and of cold filled up her
      slumbers;—and yet those dreams were light beside the waking pangs which realised the
      visions!  
  The young maiden slept for three hours, and then arose, unrefreshed, and paler than she was
      on the preceding day. It was dark: the moon had gone down; and some time would yet elapse ere
      the dawn. Ellen washed herself in water upon which the ice floated; and the cold piercing
      breeze of the morning whistled through the window upon her fair and delicate form.  
  As soon as she was dressed, she lighted her candle and crept gently into her father's room.
      The old man slept soundly. Ellen flung his clothes over her arm, took his boots up in her
      hand, and stole noiselessly back to her own chamber. She then brushed those garments, and
      cleaned those boots, all bespattered with thick mud as they were; and this task—so hard for
      her delicate and diminutive hands—she performed with the most heart-felt satisfaction.  
  As soon as this occupation was finished, she sate down once more to work.  
  Thus that poor girl knew no rest!  
  
  CHAPTER LVI. THE ROAD TO RUIN.  
  ABOUT two months after the period when we first introduced Ellen Monroe to our readers, the
      old woman of whom we have before spoken, and who dwelt in the same court as that poor maiden
      and her father, was sitting at work in her chamber.  
    
  She was poor and wretched;—and yet   she  , in all her misery, had a large easy chair
      left to sit upon, warm blankets to cover her at night, a Dutch clock to tell her the hour, a
      cupboard in which to keep her food, a mat whereon to set her feet, and a few turves burning in
      the grate to keep her warm. The walls of her room were covered with cheap prints, coloured
      with glaring hues, and representing the exploits of celebrated highwaymen and courtezans;
      scenes upon the stage in which favourite actresses figured, and execrable imitations of
      Hogarth's "Rake's Progress." The coverlid of her bed was of patchwork, pieces of silk, satin,
      cotton, and other stuffs, all of different patterns, sizes, and shapes, being sewn
      together—strange and expressive remnants of a vicious and faded luxury! Upon the chimney-piece
      were two or three scent-bottles, which for years had contained no perfume; and in the cupboard
      was a champagne-bottle, in which the hag now kept her gin. The pillow of her couch was stuffed
      neither with wool nor feathers—but with well-worn silk stockings, tattered lace collars, faded
      ribands, a piece of a muff and a boa, the velvet off a bonnet, and old kid gloves. And—more
      singular than all the other features of her room—the old hag had a huge Bible, with silver
      clasps, upon a shelf!  
  This horrible woman was darning old stockings, and stooping over her work, when a low knock
      at the door of her chamber fell upon her ear. That knock was not imperative and commanding,
      but gentle and timid; and therefore the old woman did not hurry herself to say, "Come in!"
      Even after the door had opened and the visitor had entered the room, the old hag proceeded
      with her work for a few moments.  
  At length raising her head, she beheld Ellen Monroe.  
  She was not surprised: but as she gazed upon that fair thin face whose roundness had yielded
      to the hand of starvation, and that blue eye whose fire was subdued by long and painful
      vigils, she said, "And so you have come at last? I have been expecting you every day!"  
  "Expecting me! and why?" exclaimed Ellen, surprised at these words, which appeared to
      contain a sense of dark and mysterious import that was ominous to the young girl.  
  "Yes—I have expected you," repeated the old woman. "Did I not tell you that when you had no
      money, no work, and no bread, and owed arrears of rent, you would come to me?"  
  "Alas! and you predicted truly," said Ellen, with a bitter sigh. "All the miseries which you
      have detailed have fallen upon me;—and more! for my father lies ill upon the   one
       mattress   that remains to us!"  
  "Poor creature!" exclaimed the old woman, endeavouring to assume a soothing tone; then,
      pointing to a foot-stool near her, she added, "Come and sit near me that we may talk together
      upon your sad condition."  
  Ellen really believed that she had excited a feeling of generous and disinterested sympathy
      in the heart of that hag; and she therefore seated herself confidently upon the stool, saying
      at the same time, "You told me that you could serve me: if you have still the power, in the
      name of heaven delay not, for—for—we are starving!"  
  The old woman glanced round to assure herself that the door of her cupboard was closed; for
      in that cupboard were bread and meat, and cheese. Then, turning her eyes upwards, the hag
      exclaimed, "God bless us all, dear child! I am dying of misery myself, and have not a morsel
      to give you to eat!"  
  But when she had uttered these words, she cast her eyes upon the young girl who was now
      seated familiarly as it were, by her side, and scanned her from head to foot, and from foot to
      head. In spite of the wretched and scanty garments which Ellen wore, the admirable symmetry of
      her shape was easily descried; and the old woman thought within herself how happy she should
      be to dress that sweet form in gay and gorgeous garments, for her own unhallowed purposes.  
  "You do not answer me," said Ellen. "Do not keep me in suspense—but tell me whether it is in
      your power to procure me work?"  
  The old hag's countenance wore a singular expression when these last words fell upon her
      ears. Then she began to talk to the poor starving girl in a manner which the latter could not
      comprehend, and which we dare not describe. Ellen listened for some time, as if she were
      hearing a strange language which she was endeavouring to make out; and then she cast a sudden
      look of doubt and alarm upon the old hag. The wretch grew somewhat more explicit; and the poor
      girl burst into an agony of tears, exclaiming, as she covered her blushing cheeks with her
      snow-white hands—"No: never—never!"  
  Still she did not fly from that den and from the presence of that accursed old hag, because
      she was so very, very wretched, and had no hope elsewhere.  
  There was a long pause; and the old hag and the young girl sate close to each other, silent
      and musing. The harridan cast upon her pale and starving companion a look of mingled anger and
      surprise; but the poor creature saw it not—for she was intent only on her own despair.  
  Suddenly a thought struck the hag.  
  "I can do nothing for you, miss, since you will not follow my advice," she said, after a
      while: "and yet I am acquainted with a statuary who would pay you well for casts of your
      countenance for his Madonnas, his actresses, his Esmeraldas, his queens, his princesses, and
      his angels."  
  These words sounded upon the ears of the unhappy girl like a dream; and parting, with her
      wasted fingers, the ringlets that clustered round her brow, she lifted up her large moist eyes
      in astonishment towards the face of the aged hag.  
  But the old woman was serious in her offer.  
  "I repeat—will you sell your countenance to a statuary?" she said. "It is a good one; and
      you will obtain a handsome price for it."  
  Ellen was literally stupefied by this strange proposal; but when she had power to collect
      her ideas into one focus, she saw her father pining upon a bed of sickness, and surrounded by
      all the horrors of want and privation;—and she herself—the unhappy girl—had not tasted food
      for nearly thirty hours. Then, on the other side, was her innate modesty;—but this was nothing
      in the balance compared to the poignancy of her own and her parent's sufferings.  
  So she agreed to accompany the old hag to the house of the statuary in Leather Lane,
      Holborn. But first she hurried home to see if her father required any thing—a vain act of
      filial tenderness, for if he did she had nothing to give. The old man slept soundly—worn out
      with suffering, want, and sorrowful meditation; and the landlady of the house promised to
      attend to him while Ellen was absent.  
  The young maiden then returned to the old woman and they proceeded together to the house of
      the statuary.  
   as ladders, did the trembling and almost heartbroken girl follow the hag. They
      then entered a spacious depository of statues modelled in plaster of Paris. A strange assembly
      of images was that! Heathen gods seemed to fraternize with angels, Madonnas, and Christian
      saints; Napoleon and Wellington stood motionless side by side; George the Fourth and Greenacre
      occupied the same shelf; William Pitt and Cobbett appeared to be contemplating each other with
      silent admiration; Thomas Paine elbowed a bishop; Lord Castlereagh seemed to be extending his
      hand to welcome Jack Ketch; Cupid pointed his arrow at the bosom of a pope; in a word, that
      strange pell-mell of statues was calculated to awaken ideas of a most wild and ludicrous
      character, in the imagination of one whose thoughts were not otherwise occupied.  
  The statuary was an Italian; and as he spoke the English language imperfectly, he did not
      waste much time over the bargain. With the cool criticism of a sportsman examining a horse or
      a dog, the statuary gazed upon the young maiden; then, taking a rule in his hand, he measured
      her head; and with a pair of blunt compasses he took the dimensions of her features. Giving a
      nod of approval, he consulted a large book which lay open upon a desk; and finding that he had
      orders for a queen, an opera-dancer, and a Madonna, he declared that he would take three casts
      of his new model's countenance that very morning.  
  The old woman whispered words of encouragement in Ellen's ear, as they all three repaired to
      the workshop, where upwards of twenty men were employed in making statues. Some were preparing
      the clay models over which the plaster of Paris was to be laid: others joined legs and arms to
      trunks;—some polished the features of the countenances: others effaced the seams that betrayed
      the various joints in the complete statues. One fixed wings to angels' backs—another swords to
      warriors' sides: a third repaired a limb that had been broken; a fourth stuck on a new nose in
      the place of an old one knocked off.  
  Ellen was stretched at full length upon a table; and a wet cloth was placed over her face.
      The statuary then covered it with moist clay;—and the process was only complete when she was
      ready to faint through difficulty of breathing. She rested a little while; and then the second
      cast was taken. Another interval to recover breath—and the third and last mould was
      formed.  
  The statuary seemed well pleased with this trial of his new model; and placing a sovereign
      in the young maiden's hand, he desired her to return in three days, as he should require her
      services again. The poor trembling creature's eyes glistened with delight as she balanced the
      gold in her little hand; and she took her departure, accompanied by the hag, with a heart
      comparatively light.  
  "You will have plenty to do there," said the old woman, as they proceeded homewards: "I have
      introduced you to a good thing. You must therefore divide your first day's earnings with
      me."  
  Ellen really felt grateful to the selfish harridan; and having changed her gold for silver
      coin at a shop where she stopped to buy provisions, she counted ten shillings in the withered
      and sinewy hand which the hag thrust forth.  
  Thus for three months did Ellen earn the means of a comfortable subsistence, by selling her
      countenance to the statuary. And that countenance might be seen belonging to the statues of
      Madonnas in catholic chapels; opera dancers, and actresses in theatrical clubs; nymphs holding
      lamps in the halls of public institutions; and queens in the staircase windows of insurance
      offices.  
  She never revealed to her father the secret spring of that improved condition which soon
      restored him to health; but assured him that she had found more needle-work, and was well paid
      for it. The old man had too good an opinion of his daughter to suspect her of crime or
      frailty; and he believed her innocent and well-meant falsehood the more readily, inasmuch as
      he saw her constantly engaged with her needle when he was at home.  
  Three months passed away; and already had a little air of comfort succeeded to the former
      dismal aspect of those two chambers which the father and daughter occupied, when the statuary
      died suddenly.  
  Ellen's occupation was once more gone; and, after vainly endeavouring to obtain
      needle-work—for that which she did in the presence of her father was merely a pretence to make
      good her tale to him—she again repaired to the abode of the old hag who had introduced her to
      the statuary.  
  The aged female was, if possible, more wrinkled and hideous than before; the contrast
      between her and her fair young visitant was the more striking, inasmuch as the cheeks of the
      latter had recovered their roundness, and her form its plumpness by means of good and
      sufficient food.  
  "You have come to me again," said the hag. "Doubtless I should have never seen you more if
      you had not wanted my services."  
  "The statuary is dead," returned Ellen, "and has left behind him an immense fortune. His son
      has therefore declined the business, and has discharged every one in the employment of his
      late father."  
  "And what would you have me do for you, miss?" demanded the old woman. "I am not acquainted
      with another statuary."  
  Ellen heaved a deep sigh.  
  The hag contemplated her for some time in silence, and then exclaimed, "Your appearance has
      improved; you have a tinge of the carnation upon your cheeks; and your eyes have recovered
      their brightness. I know an artist of great repute, who will be glad of you as a copy for his
      shepherdesses, his huntresses, his sea-nymphs, and heathen goddesses. Let us lose no time in
      proceeding to his residence."  
  This proposal was far more agreeable to the maiden than the one which had led her into the
      service of the statuary; and she did not for a moment hesitate to accompany the old woman to
      the abode of the artist.  
  The great painter was about forty years of age, and dwelt in a splendid house in Bloomsbury
      Square. The rooms on the third floor were his   studio  , as he required a clear and good
      light. He accepted the services of Ellen Monroe as a copy, and remunerated the old woman out
      of his own pocket, for the introduction. But he required the attendance of his copy every day
      from ten till four; and she was accordingly compelled to tell her father another story to
      account for these long intervals of absence. She now assured him that she was engaged to work
      at the residence of a family in Bloomsbury Square; and the old man believed her.  
   bust, and naked arms, and naked legs—the feeling of shame gradually wore away.
      Thus, though in body she remained pure and chaste, yet in soul was she gradually hardened to
      the sentiments of maiden delicacy and female reserve!  
  It is true that she retained her virtue—because it was not tempted. The artist saw not
      before him a lovely creature of warm flesh and blood; he beheld nothing but a beautiful and
      symmetrical statue which served as an original for his heathen divinities and pastoral
      heroines. And in this light did he treat her.  
  He paid her handsomely; and her father and herself were enabled to remove to better
      lodgings, and in a more respectable neighbourhood, than those which had been the scene of so
      much misery in Golden Lane.  
  The artist whom Ellen served was a portrait-painter as well as a delineator of classical
      subjects. When he was employed to paint the likeness of some vain and conceited West End
      daughter of the aristocracy, it was Ellen's hand—or Ellen's hair—or Ellen's eyes—or Ellen's
      bust—or some feature or peculiar beauty of the young maiden, in which the fashionable lady
      somewhat resembled her, that figured upon the canvass. Then when the portrait was finished,
      the artist would assemble his friends at the same time that the lady and   her   friends
      called to see it; and the artist's friends—well tutored beforehand—would exclaim, one, "How
      like is the eye!" another, "The very mouth!" a third, "The hair to the life itself!" a fourth,
      "The exact profile!"—and so on. And all the while it was Ellen's eye, or Ellen's mouth, or
      Ellen's hair, or Ellen's profile, which the enthusiasts admired. Then the lady, flattering
      herself that   she   alone was the original, and little suspecting that the charms of
      another had been called in to enhance the beauty of   her   portrait, persuaded her fond
      and uxorious husband to double the amount of the price bargained for, and had the picture set
      in a very costly frame, to hang in the most conspicuous place in her mansion.  
  It happened one day that the artist obtained the favour of a marchioness of forty-six by
      introducing into her portrait the nose, eyes, and mouth of that fair young maiden of
      seventeen. The great lady recommended him to the Russian Ambassador as the greatest of English
      painters; and the ambassador immediately retained him to proceed to St. Petersburgh to
      transfer to canvass the physiognomy of the Czar.  
  Ellen thus lost her employment once more; and again did she repair to the den of the old hag
      who had recommended her to the statuary and the artist.  
  The step of the maiden was less timid than formerly; and her look was more confident. She
      was also dressed in a style which savoured of coquetry, for her occupation at the artist's had
      taught her the value of her charms, and prompted her how to enhance them. She had imbibed the
      idea that her beauty was worth much, and should at least produce her a comfortable livelihood,
      even if it did not lay the foundation for a fortune. She therefore occupied all her leisure
      time in studying how to set it off to the greatest advantage. Thus dire necessity had
      compelled that charming young creature to embrace occupations which awoke all the latent
      female vanity that had slumbered in her bosom throughout the period of her pinching poverty,
      and that now shone forth in her manner—her gait—her glance—her speech—and her attire.  
  The old hag observed this change, and was not surprised—for she was a woman of the world;
      but she muttered to herself, "A little while, my dear, and you will suit my purposes
      altogether."  
  "I am come again, you see," said Ellen, seating herself without waiting to be asked. "My
      artist has left England suddenly, and I am once more without occupation."  
  "Have you any money?" demanded the old hag.  
  "I have three sovereigns left," replied Ellen.  
  "You must give me two," said the woman; "and you must promise me half your first week's
      earnings, for the new introduction which I shall presently give you."  
  Ellen placed two sovereigns in the hand of the beldame; and the old wretch opened her table
      drawer to search for something which she required.  
  That drawer contained a strange incongruity of articles. Old valentine letters, knots of
      faded riband, cards, prophetic almanacs; tooth powder boxes, and scented oil bottles, all
      alike empty; the visiting cards of several noblemen and gentlemen, play-bills, theatrical
      journals, masquerade tickets never used, pieces of music, magazines of fashion, a volume of
      the "Memoirs of Harriett Wilson," immoral prints, a song book, some leaves torn from the
      "Newgate Calendar," medical drugs wrapped up in papers, a child's caul, pieces of poetry in
      manuscript, amatory epistles on sheets of various tints, writs from the Court of Requests,
      summonses from police courts, &amp;c. &amp;c. The contents of that filthy drawer furnished a
      complete history of that old hag's former life.  
  The object of the old woman's search was a card, which, having found it, she handed to the
      young maiden, saying, "Here is the address of an eminent sculptor: he requires a model of a
      bust for the statue of a great lady who may be said to have no bust at all. You will suit
      him."  
  Ellen received the card, and hastened to Halkin Street, Belgrave Square, where the sculptor
      resided. She was shown first into a parlour upon the ground floor, then, when the object of
      her visit was made known, she was requested to walk up stairs to the   studio   of the
      great man. She found him contemplating with profound satisfaction a head which he had already
      cut from the top part of a block of marble. He was an old man of sixty, and he stooped in his
      gait; but his eyes were dark and piercing.  
  A bargain between the sculptor and Ellen was soon terminated; and the next morning she
      entered upon her new employment. Stripped to the waist, she had to stand in a certain
      position, for several hours each day, in the presence of the sculptor. The old man laboured
      diligently at his statue, and allowed her little rest; but he paid her munificently, and she
      was contented.  
  The lady, whose statue was thus   supposed   to be in progress, called daily, and
      remained at the sculptor's house for hours. She always came alone, and sate in the
         studio   the whole time during which her call lasted: it was therefore imagined by all
      her friends that she really formed the model of the statue which was to bear her name. But
      Ellen's neck—and Ellen's shoulders—and Ellen's bosom—and Ellen's arms were in truth the
      pattern of the bust of that statue which was to be a great sculptor's masterpiece, and to hand
      down the name of a great lady to posterity!  
   exclaiming, "  You  , miss, a companion for my children! a girl who gets
      her livelihood by standing half naked in the presence of any body, as a model!" And the lady
      was compelled to have recourse to her scent-bottle to save herself from fainting. She forgot
      that she would have herself stood to the sculptor if she had possessed a good bust!  
  The answer and the behaviour of this lady opened the eyes of Ellen to the nature of the
      opinion which the world must now form of her. She suddenly comprehended the real position
      which she occupied in society—about one remove above the unfortunate girls who were the avowed
      daughters of crime. Were she now to speak to the world of her virtue, that world would laugh
      insultingly in her face. Thus the dire necessity which had urged her upon this career, began
      by destroying her sense of female delicacy and shame: it now destroyed, in her estimation,
      every inducement to pursue a virtuous career.  
  Again she sought the dwelling of the old hag: for the fourth time she demanded the
      assistance of the beldame.  
  "It seems, my child," said the old woman, "that my advice has produced beneficial
      consequences. Each time that you cross my threshold I observe that you are freer and lighter
      in step, and more choice in your apparel."  
  "You know that I am not detestably ugly, mother," answered Ellen, with a smile of
      complacence; "and surely it is as cheap to have a gown well made as badly made, and a becoming
      bonnet as one altogether out of date."  
  "Ah! I see that you study the fashions," exclaimed the old woman with a sigh—for she
      recalled to mind the pleasures and pursuits of her own youthful days, over which she
      retrospected with regret:—then, after a pause, she said, "How old are you?"  
  "Eighteen and a half," replied Ellen.  
  "And, with all that beauty, is your heart still unoccupied by the image of some favoured
      suitor?"  
  "Oh!" ejaculated Ellen, laughing heartily, so as to display her brilliant teeth, "I have not
      thought of   that   yet. I have lately read a great deal about love in novels and
      romances—for I never do any needle-work now,—but I have not experienced the passion. I dare
      say my time will come sooner or later;"—and again she laughed. "But, hasten, mother—I am
      losing my time: tell me, do you know of farther employment for me?"  
  "I am acquainted with a French gentleman of science at the West End," answered the hag, "who
      has invented a means of taking likenesses by the aid of the sun. I do not know what the
      process is: all that concerns me and you is that the Frenchman requires a beautiful woman to
      serve as a pattern for his experiments."  
  "Give me his address," said Ellen, "and if he engages me I will pay you liberally. You know
      that you can rely upon me."  
  The old woman once more had recourse to her filthy drawer, in which her present memoranda
      were mingled with the relics of the luxury of former days; and taking thence a letter which
      she had only received that same morning, she tore off the address for the use of the young
      maiden.  
  Ellen, who a few months previously had been accustomed to work for seventeen or eighteen
      hours without ceasing, now took a cab to proceed from the neighbourhood of St. Luke's to
      Leicester Square. The French scientific experimentalist was at home; and Ellen was conducted
      up four flights of stairs to a species of belvidere, or glass cabinet, built upon the roof of
      the house. The windows of this belvidere, and the paper with which the wood-work of the
      interior was covered, were of a dark blue, in order to mitigate the strength of the sun's
      rays.  
  Within this belvidere the Frenchman was at work. He was a short, middle-aged, sallow-faced,
      sharp-featured person—entirely devoted to matters of science, and having no soul for love,
      pleasure, politics, or any kind of excitement save his learned pursuits. He was now busily
      employed at a table covered with copper plates coated with silver, phials of nitric acid,
      cotton wool, pounce, a camera obscura, several boxes, each of about two feet square, and other
      materials necessary for photography.  
  The Frenchman spoke English tolerably well; and eyeing his fair visitant from head to foot,
      he expressed himself infinitely obliged to the person who had sent her. He then entered into
      particulars; and Ellen found, to her surprise, that the photographer was desirous of taking
      full-length female portraits in a state of nudity. She drew her veil over her countenance, and
      was about to retire in disgust and indignation, when the Frenchman, who was examining a plate
      as he spoke, and therefore did not observe the effect his words had produced upon her,
      mentioned the price which he proposed to pay her. Now the artist paid better than the
      statuary; the sculptor better than the artist; and the photographer better than the sculptor.
      She therefore hesitated no longer; but entered the service of the man of science.  
  We shall not proceed to any details connected with this new avocation to which that lovely
      maiden lent herself. Suffice it to say, that having sold her countenance to the statuary, her
      likeness to the artist, and her bust to the sculptor, she disposed of her whole body to the
      photographer. Thus her head embellished images white and bronzed; her features and her figure
      were perpetuated in divers paintings; her bust was immortalized in a splendid statue; and her
      entire form is preserved, in all attitudes, and on many plates, in the private cabinet of a
      photographer at one of the metropolitan Galleries of Practical Science.  
  At length the photographer was satisfied with the results of his experiments regarding the
      action of light upon every part of the human frame; and Ellen's occupation was again gone.  
  A tainted soul now resided in a pure body. Every remaining sentiment of decency and delicacy
      was crushed—obliterated—destroyed by this last service. Pure souls have frequently resided in
      tainted bodies: witness Lucretia after the outrage perpetrated upon her:—but here was
      essentially a foul soul in a chaste and virgin form.  
   to destroy her purity of thought and chastity of feeling for ever!  
  When Ellen left the service of the photographer, she repaired for the fifth time to the
      dwelling of the hag.  
  The old woman was seated as usual at her work; and she was humming to herself an opera air,
      which she remembered to have heard many—many years back.  
  "The Frenchman requires my services no longer," said Ellen. "What next can you do for
      me?"  
  "Alas! my poor child," answered the old woman, "the times were never so bad as they are at
      present! What is to become of us? what is to become of us?"  
  And the hag rocked herself backwards and forwards in her chair, as if overcome by painful
      reflections.  
  "You can, then, do nothing for me?" observed Ellen, interrogatively. "That is a pity! for I
      have not a shilling left in the world. We have lived up to the income which my occupations
      produced. My poor old father fancies up to the present moment that I have been working at
      dress-making and embroidery at the houses of great families; and he will wonder how all my
      engagements should so suddenly cease. Think, mother: are you not acquainted with another
      artist or sculptor?"  
  "Why, my child, do you pitch upon the artist and the sculptor?" inquired the hag, regarding
      Ellen fixedly in the face.  
  "Oh!" answered the young maiden, lightly, "because I do not like to have my countenance
      handled about by the dirty fingers of the statuary; and you cannot suppose that out of the
      four services I should voluntarily prefer that of the photographer?"  
  The old woman looked disappointed, and muttered to herself, "Not quite yet! not quite
      yet!"  
  "What did you say, mother?" inquired Ellen.  
  "I say," replied the hag, assuming a tone of kindness and conciliation, "that you must come
      back to me in ten days; and in the mean time I will see what is to be done for you."  
  "In ten days," observed Ellen: "be it so!"  
  And she took her departure, downcast and disappointed, from the old hag's abode.  
  
  CHAPTER LVII. THE LAST RESOURCE.  
  POVERTY once again returned—with all its hideous escort of miseries—to the abode of Monroe
      and his daughter. The articles of comfort which they had lately collected around them were
      sent to the pawnbroker: necessaries then followed to the same destination.  
  Ellen no longer sought for needle-work: she had for some time past led a life which
      incapacitated her for close application to monotonous toil; and she confidently reposed upon
      the hope that the old woman would procure her more employment with an artist or a
      sculptor.  
  But at the expiration of the ten days, the hag put her off for ten days more; and then again
      for another ten days. Thus a month passed away in idleness for both father and daughter,
      neither of whom earned a shilling.  
  They could no longer retain the lodgings which they had occupied for some time in a
      respectable neighbourhood; and now behold them returning to the very same cold, miserable, and
      cheerless rooms which we saw them occupying in the first instance, in the court leading out of
      Golden Lane!  
  What ups and downs constitute existence!  
  Two years had now passed away since we first introduced the reader to that destitute lodging
      in Golden Lane. We have therefore brought up this portion of our narrative, as well as all the
      other parts of it, to the close of the year 1838.  
  Misery, more grinding, more pinching, and more acute than any which they had yet known, now
      surrounded the father and daughter. They had parted with every thing which would produce the
      wherewith to purchase food. They lay upon straw at night; and for days and days they had not a
      spark of fire in the grate. They often went six-and-thirty hours together without tasting a
      morsel of food. They could not even pay the pittance of rent which was claimed for their two
      chambers: and if it had not been for their compassionate neighbours they must have starved
      altogether.  
  Monroe could obtain no employment in the City. When he had failed, during the time of
      Richard Markham's imprisonment, he lost all his friends, because they took no account of his
      misfortunes, and looked only to the fact that he had been compelled to give up business. Had
      he passed through the Bankruptcy Court, and then opened his counting-house again to commence
      affairs upon credit, he would have found admirers and supporters. But as he had paid his
      creditors every farthing, left himself a beggar, and spurned the idea of entering upon
      business without capital of his own, he had not a friend to whom he could apply for a
      shilling.  
  At length the day came when the misery of the father and the daughter arrived at an extreme
      when it became no longer tolerable. They had fasted for forty-eight hours; and their landlady
      threatened to turn them out of their empty rooms into the street, unless they paid her the
      arrears of rent which they owed. They had not an article upon which they could raise the price
      of a loaf:—it was the depth of a cold and severe winter, and Ellen had already parted with all
      her under-garments.  
  "My dear child," said the heart-broken father, embracing his daughter affectionately, on the
      morning when their misery thus reached its utmost limit, "I have one resource left—a resource
      to which I should never fly save in an extreme like this!"  
  "What mean you?" inquired the daughter, anxiously glancing in the pale and haggard
      countenance of her sire.  
  "I mean that I will apply to Richard Markham," said the old man. "He does not suspect our
      appalling state of destitution, or he would seek us out—he would fly to our succour."  
  "And you will apply to him who has already suffered so much by you?" said the daughter,
      shaking her head. "Alas! he will refuse you the succour you require!"  
  "No—no—not he!" ejaculated the old man. "Be of good cheer, Ellen—I shall not be long absent;
      and on my return thou shalt have food, and fire, and clothes!"  
  "God grant that it may be so!" cried Ellen, clasping her hands together.  
   Montague is pursuing his old game, at the West End, under the name of
      Greenwood."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Ah! why do you not rather call upon this man," cried Ellen, "and represent to him the
      misery to which his villany has reduced us? He is doubtless wealthy, and might be inclined to
      give a few pounds to one whom he robbed of thousands."  
  "Alas! my dear Ellen, you do not know the world as I know it! I have no means of convincing
      Montague, or Greenwood, that I lost money by him. He only knew Allen in the entire
      transaction: he never saw me in his life—nor I him,—at least to my knowledge. Allen is
      dead;—how then can I present myself to this man, whom villany has no doubt rendered
      hard-hearted and selfish, with mere assertions of losses through his instrumentality? He would
      eject me ignominiously from his abode! No—I shall repair to Richard Markham; he is my last and
      only hope!"  
  With these words the old man embraced his daughter affectionately, and left the room.  
  The moment he was gone Ellen said to herself, "My father has undertaken a hopeless task! It
      is not probable that Markham, whom he has reduced to a miserable pittance, will spare from
      that pittance aught to relieve our necessities. What is to be done? There are no more artists
      or sculptors who require my services—no more statuaries or photographers who need my aid. And
      yet we cannot starve! When I last saw the old woman, she spoke out plainly—her meaning could
      not be misunderstood. I rushed away from her presence, as if she were a venomous reptile! Fool
      that I was. Starvation is undermining those charms which I have learnt to value: hunger is
      defacing that beauty which gave me bread for nearly two years, and which may give me bread
      again in the same way. I am clothed in rags, and shiver with the cold! My hands, once so
      white, are becoming red: my form, lately so round and plump, is losing its fulness and its
      freshness; my cheeks grow thin and hollow. And in a few hours my poor old father will return
      home, wasted with fatigue, and overwhelmed with famine and disappointment. O my God!" she
      continued, clasping her hands together in an ebullition of intense agony; "pardon—pardon—I can
      hesitate no longer!"  
  And straightway she proceeded to the dwelling of the old hag.  
  rend="stars" unit="subchapter"/ 
    
  It was about two o'clock in the afternoon when Mr. Monroe returned to the court in Golden
      Lane.  
  His countenance was animated with an expression of joy, as he encountered the landlady upon
      the threshold of the house in which he resided.  
  "Miss Monroe is not come in yet," said the woman roughly. "Here is the key of your
       lodgings—  not that I think there is much worth the locking up.   However, this key you
      don't have again till my rent is paid."  
  "Here—pay yourself—pay yourself!" cried the old man, taking a handful of gold and silver
      from his pocket.  
  The woman's manner instantly changed into cringing politeness. She was not now pressed for
      the rent. She could wait till it was convenient. She always knew that she had to deal with a
      gentleman. What did it matter to her when she was paid, since she felt convinced the money was
      safe?  
  Monroe cut short her compliments by settling the arrears due, and sending the landlady out
      to purchase some food. The old man was determined to be extravagant that day—he was so happy!
      Markham had declared that he and his daughter should never know want again;—and then—he had
      such a surprise for Ellen. They were to proceed next day to take up their abode with Richard:
      the young man had insisted upon it—Whittingham had supported the proposal;—and so it was all
      resolved upon. No more poverty—no more cold—no more hunger!  
  It was for this that the old gentleman was resolved to be extravagant. He was anxious to
      provide a delicate little treat for his daughter;—and he was glad that she was not at home
      when he returned. He felt convinced that she had gone out to seek for work, and hoped that she
      would not be long ere she returned.  
  By means of the landlady he procured a cold fowl, a piece of ham, and a bottle of cheap
      wine; and his own thin and meagre hands spread the dainties upon the table, while the landlady
      lighted a fire in the grate.  
  When these arrangements were complete, Monroe dispatched the now obsequious mistress of the
      house to redeem from pledge the various articles which had been pawned during this latter
      period of destitution; and when she returned, laden with the necessaries and the comforts
      which had thus been temporarily disposed of, Monroe felt pleasure in arranging them in such a
      way that they might strike Ellen's eyes the moment she should return.  
  The poor old man was so joyful—so happy, as he executed his task, that he did not observe
      the lapse of time. Six o'clock struck, and the candle had been burning for some time upon the
      mantelpiece, ere Monroe began to wonder what could keep his daughter so long away.  
  Another half-hour passed; and her well-known step was heard ascending the staircase. The
      door opened; and Ellen rushed into the room, exclaiming, "My dear father, here is gold! here
      is gold!"  
  "This then appears to be a day of good fortune," said the old man, glancing triumphantly
      around him. "I also have gold—and these are the fruits of the first use which I have made of
      it!"  
  "What!" exclaimed Ellen, gazing wildly upon the well-spread table and the various articles
      redeemed from the pawnbroker; "Richard Markham——"  
  "Is an angel!" cried Monroe. "He never will let us know want again!"  
  "Oh! my God!" ejaculated Ellen, throwing herself upon a chair, and burying her face in her
      hands: "why did I not wait a few hours? why did I not have patience and hope until your
      return?"  
  "Ellen, what mean those words?" demanded the old man: "speak—tell me——"  
  "Simply, my dear father," she answered, raising her head, and at the same time exercising an
      almost superhuman control over her inward emotions, "that I have consented to receive work at
      a price which will scarcely find us in bread; and——"  
  "You shall not hold to your bargain, dearest," interrupted Monroe. "The money which you may
      have received in advance,—for you said, I think, that you had money,—shall be returned to
      those who would condemn you to a slavery more atrocious than that endured by the negroes in
      the West Indies! Take courage my beloved Ellen—take courage: a brighter day will yet dawn upon
      us."  
  Ellen made no reply: but her countenance wore so singular an expression, that her father was
      alarmed.  
  "My dearest daughter," he exclaimed, "you have no longer any hope! I see by your looks that
      you despair! God knows that we have encountered enough to teach us to place but little
      reliance upon the smiles of fortune: nevertheless, let us not banish hope altogether from our
      bosoms! To-morrow we shall leave this dismal abode, and repair to the house of our young
      benefactor, Markham."  
  "Markham!" cried Ellen, the very name appearing to arouse agonizing emotions in her mind:
      "have you promised Mr. Richard Markham that we will reside with him?"  
  "Yes, dearest Ellen; and in so doing I had hoped to give thee pleasure. You have known each
      other from infancy. Methinks I see thee now, a little child, climbing up that hill in company
      with Richard and his brother——"  
  "His brother!" repeated Ellen, a cold shudder passing over her entire frame.  
  "My dearest girl, you are not well," said the old man; and, pouring some wine into a glass,
      he added, "drink this, Ellen; it will revive thee."  
  The young lady partook of the exhilarating beverage, and appeared refreshed. Her father and
      herself then seated themselves at the table, and partook of the meal.  
  Ellen ate but little. She was pensive and melancholy; and every now and then her countenance
      wore an expression of supreme horror, which denoted intense agony of feeling within her bosom.
      She, however, contrived to veil from her father's eyes much of the anguish which she thus
      experienced; and the old man's features were animated with a gleam of joy, as he sate by the
      cheerful fire and talked to his daughter of brighter prospects and happier days.  
  On the following morning they took leave of those rooms in which they had experienced so
      much misery, and repaired to the dwelling of Richard Markham.  
  
  CHAPTER LVIII. NEW YEAR'S DAY.  
  IT was the 1st of January, 1839.  
  The weather was cold and inclement;—Nature in nakedness appeared to recline upon the
      turfless grave of summer.  
    
  The trees were stripped of their verdure: the singing of birds had ceased.  
  Gloomy and mournful was the face of nature; sombre and lowering the aspect of the proud
      city.  
  So pale—so faint were the beams of the mid-day sun, that the summit of St. Paul's, which a
      few months back was wont to glitter as if it were crowned with a diadem of gold, was now
      veiled in a murky cloud; and the myriad pinnacles of the modern Babylon, which erst were each
      tipped as with a star, pointed upwards to a sky ominous and foreboding.  
  Nevertheless, the ingenuity and wonderous perseverance of man had adopted all precautions to
      expel the cold from the palaces of the rich and powerful, and to surround the lordly owners of
      those splendid mansions with the most delicious wines and the most luxurious food, in doors,
      to induce them to forget that winter reigned without.  
  Soft carpets, thick curtains—satin, and velvet, and silk,—downy beds beneath gorgeous
      canopies,—warm clothing, and cheerful fires, combined to defy the approach of winter, and to
      render the absence of genial summer a matter of small regret.  
  Then, when the occupants of these palaces went abroad, there was no bold exertion required
      for them to face the nipping cold, for they stepped from their thresholds into carriages
      thickly lined with wool, and supplied with cushions, soft, luxurious, and warm.  
  But that cold which was thus expelled from the palaces of the rich took refuge in the
      dwellings of the poor; and there it remained, sharp as a razor, pitiless as an executioner,
      inexorable as a judge, and keen as the north-western wind that blows from the ice-bound coasts
      of Labrador.  
  No silks, nor satins, nor velvets, nor carpets, nor canopies, nor curtains, had the
      dwellings of the poor to defy, or even mitigate the freezing malignity of that chill which,
      engendered in the arctic regions of eternal snow, and having swept over the frozen rivers and
      the mighty forests of America, had come to vent its collected spite upon the islands of
      Europe.  
  Shivering, starving, in their miserable hovels, the industrious many, by the sweat of whose
      brow the indolent few were supplied with their silks, and their satins, and their velvets,
      wept bitter—bitter tears over their suffering and famished children, and cursed the day on
      which their little ones were born.  
  For the winter was a very hard one; and bread—bread was very dear!  
  Yes—bread, which thou, Almighty God! hast given to feed those whom thou didst create after
      thine own image,—even bread was too dear for the starving poor to buy!  
  How long, O Lord! wilt thou permit the few to wrest every thing from the many—to monopolize,
      accumulate, gripe, snatch, drag forth, cling to, the fruits of the earth, for their own behoof
      alone?  
  How long shall there exist such spells in the privilege of birth? how long must all
      happiness and all misery be summed up in the words—  WEALTH. | POVERTY.    
  We said that it was New Year's Day, 1839.  
  In the palaces of the great were rejoicings, and music, and festivity; and diamonds
      glittered—and feathers waved—and silks rustled;—the elastic floors bent beneath the steps of
      the dancers; the wine flowed in crystal cups; and the fruits of summer were amongst the
      dainties spread to tempt the appetite of the aristocracy.  
  Ah! there was happiness indeed, in thus welcoming the new year; for those who there greeted
      its presence, were well assured that it would teem with the joys and blandishments which had
      characterized the one that had just sunk into the grave of Time!  
  And how was it with the poor of this mighty metropolis—the imperial city, to whose marts
      whole navies waft the commerce of the world!  
  The granaries were full; the pastures had surrendered up fat oxen to commemorate the season;
      the provision-shops teemed with food of the most luxurious and of the humblest kinds alike. A
      stranger walking through this great city would have wondered where the mouths were that could
      consume such vast quantities of food.  
  And yet thousands famished for want of the merest necessaries of life.  
  The hovels of the poor echoed not to the sounds of mirth and music—but to the wail of hunger
      and the cry of misery. In those sad abodes there was no joviality to welcome a new year;—for a
      new year was a curse—a mere prolongation of the acute and poignant horrors of the one gone
      by.  
  Alas! that New Year's Day was one of strange contrasts in the social sphere of London.  
  And as London is the heart of this empire, the disease which prevails in the core is
      conveyed through every vein and artery over the entire national frame.  
  The country that contains the greatest wealth of all the territories of the universe, is
      that which also knows the greatest amount of hideous, revolting, heart-rending misery.  
  In England men and women die of starvation in the streets.  
  In England women murder their children to save them from a lingering death by famine.  
  In England the poor commit crimes to obtain an asylum in a gaol.  
  In England aged females die by their own hands, in order to avoid the workhouse.  
  There is one cause of all these miseries and horrors—one fatal scourge invented by the rich
      to torture the poor—one infernal principle of mischief and of woe, which has taken root in the
      land—one element of a cruelty so keen and so refined, that it outdoes the agonies endured in
      the Inquisition of the olden time.  
  And this fertile source of misery, and murder, and suicide, and crime, is—  
  THE TREATMENT OF THE WORKHOUSE.  
  Alas! when the bees have made the honey, the apiarist comes and takes all away, begrudging
      the industrious insects even a morsel of the wax!  
  Let us examine for a moment the social scale of these realms:  
  unit="graphic"/ 
    
  The lowest step in the ladder is occupied by the class which is the most numerous, the most
      useful and which ought to be the most influential.  
  The average annual incomes of the individuals of each class are as follows:—  
  Is this reasonable? is this just? is this even consistent with common sense?  
  It was New Year's Day, 1839.  
  The rich man sate down to a table crowded with every luxury: the pauper in the workhouse had
      not enough to eat. The contrast may thus be represented:—  
  And this was New Year's Day, 1839!  
  But to proceed.  
  It was five o'clock in the evening. Three persons were conversing together on Constitution
      Hill, beneath the wall of the Palace Gardens.  
  Two of them, who were wrapped up in warm pilot coats, are well known to our readers: the
      third was a young lad of about sixteen or seventeen, and very short in stature. He was dressed
      in a blue jacket, dark waistcoat of coarse materials, and corduroy trousers. His countenance
      was effeminate and by no means bad-looking; his eyes were dark and intelligent; his teeth
      good. The name of this youth was Henry Holford.  
  "Well, my boy," said the Resurrection Man, for he was one of the lad's companions, the other
      being the redoubtable Cracksman,—"well, my boy, do you feel equal to this undertaking?"  
  "Quite," answered Holford in a decided tone.  
  "If we succeed, you know," observed the Cracksman, "it will be a jolly good thing for you;
      and if you happen to get nabbed, why—all the beaks can do to you will be to send you for a
      month or two upon the stepper. In that there case Tony and me will take care on you when you
      come out—won't we, Tony?"  
  "Certainly," replied the Resurrection Man.—"But if you get scented, Harry," he continued,
      addressing himself to the lad, "as you approach the big house, you must have a run for it, and
      we shall stay here and leave the rope over the wall for two hours. If you don't come back by
      that time, we shall suppose that you've either got into some quiet corner of the palace, or
      that you're taken; and then, whichever happens of these two events, we shan't be of any
      service to you."  
  "One thing I should like you to bear in mind, youngster," said the Cracksman, "and that is,
      that if you don't pluck up your courage well, and prepare for all kinds of dangers and
      difficulties, you'd much better give up the thing at once. We don't want you to run neck and
      heels into a business that you are afeard on."  
  "Afraid!" exclaimed the youth, contemptuously: "I shall not fail for want of courage. I have
      made up my mind to risk the venture; and let the result be what it will, I shall go through
      with it."  
  "That's what I call speaking like a man," said the burglar, "though you are but a boy. Take
      a drop of brandy before you begin."  
  "Not a drop," answered Holford: "I require a clear head and a quick eye, and dare not
      drink."  
  "Well, as you will," said the Cracksman; and he took a tolerably long draught from a
      case-bottle which he had produced from his pocket.  
  He then handed the bottle to the Resurrection Man, who also paid his respects to it with a
      hearty goodwill.  
  "I am ready," said Holford; "there is no use in delay."  
  "Not a bit," observed the Cracksman. "Tony and me will help you over the wall in a
      jiffey."  
  By the aid of the Resurrection Man and the burglar, the youth scaled the wall of the Palace
      Gardens, and ere he dropped upon the inner side, he said in a low but firm tone, "Good
      night."  
  Holford was now within the enclosure of the royal demesne. The evening was very dark; but at
      a distance the windows of the palace shone with effulgence.  
  Thitherward did he proceed, advancing cautiously along, for he knew that there was a piece
      of water in the pleasure-grounds. This small lake he soon left on his right hand; and he was
      shortly within fifty yards of the back part of Buckingham Palace.  
  At that moment he was suddenly startled by hearing voices close to him. He stood still, and
      listened. Steps approached, and he heard a gardener issue some instructions to a subordinate.
      There was a tuft of trees near at hand: Holford had not a moment to lose;—he darted into the
      thicket of evergreens, where he concealed-himself.  
  "What was that?" said the gardener, stopping short.  
  "I heard nothing," answered the man.  
  "Yes—there was a rustling of those trees."  
  "A cat, perhaps."  
  "Or one of the aquatic birds."  
  All was still, and the gardener, accompanied by his man, proceeded on his way. The sounds of
      their footsteps were soon lost in the distance; and Holford emerged from his hiding-place.
      Without any farther alarm he reached the back premises of the palace.  
  He now became involved in a maze of out-houses and offices, and was at a loss which
      direction to take. He was going cautiously along the wall of one of those buildings, when he
      suddenly ran against a man who was advancing rapidly in a contrary direction.  
  "Holloa! who the devil is this?" cried the man; and clutching hold of Holford's collar, he
      dragged him a few paces, until he brought him beneath a window whence streamed a powerful
      light. "I suppose you're the new boy that the head-gardener hired this morning?"  
  "Yes, sir," answered Holford, gladly availing himself of an excuse thus so conveniently
      suggested by the error of the man who had collared him.  
  "Then mind which way you go in future, young brocoli-sprout," exclaimed the other; and,
      dismissing the youth with a slight cuff on the head, he passed on.  
    
  He was now in a low vestibule, well lighted, and at the extremity of which there was a
      staircase. In one corner of the vestibule was a marble table, on which lay several cloaks, the
      skirts of which hung down to the ground. This circumstance was particularly fortunate for the
      safety of the intruder, inasmuch as he had scarcely entered the vestibule, when the sound of
      footsteps, rapidly descending the staircase, fell upon his ears. He hastened to conceal
      himself beneath the table, the cloaks serving effectually to veil his person.  
  Two footmen in gorgeous liveries shortly made their appearance in the vestibule.  
  "Where did you say her majesty is?" demanded one.  
  "In the Roman drawing-room," replied the other. "The Sculpture Gallery is to be lighted up
      this evening. You can attend to that duty at once, if you will."  
  "Very well," said the first speaker; and he left the vestibule by means of a door on the
      right-hand side, but which door he neglected to close behind him.  
  The other servant advanced straight up to the marble table, and, sweeping off the cloaks,
      threw them all over his left arm. Holford's person was now exposed to the eyes of any one who
      might happen to glance beneath that table. The domestic was, however, a tall and stately
      individual, and kept his head elevated. Having taken the cloaks from the table, he slowly
      retraced his steps up the stairs, and disappeared from Holford's view.  
  The young adventurer started from his hiding-place. The door, by which one of the servants
      had left the vestibule for the purpose of repairing to the Sculpture Gallery, was open. It
      communicated with a long passage, only feebly lighted. Holford hesitated not a moment, but
      proceeded in this direction.  
  He advanced to the end of the passage, and entered a narrow corridor, branching off to the
      right, and lighted by lamps sustained in the hands of two tall statues. Again the sound of
      footsteps fell upon Holford's ears; and he had scarcely time to slip behind one of these
      statues, when the domestic whom he had before seen enter that part of the building, appeared
      at the end of the corridor. The servant passed without observing him; and the youthful
      intruder emerged from his lurking-place.  
  He now pursued his way, without interruption, through several passages and rooms, until he
      reached a magnificent marble hall, at the farther extremity of which were numerous dependants
      of the palace, grouped together, and conversing in a low tone. Holford instantly shrank back
      into the passage by which he had reached the hall. Exactly opposite was the entrance to the
      Sculpture Gallery. To retrace his steps was useless: he determined to proceed. But how was he
      to cross the hall? A few moments' reflection suggested to him an expedient. He walked boldly
      across the hall; and his presence excited no suspicion, it being impossible for the dependants
      collected together at the other end to observe the nature of his garb at that distance.  
  He now gained access to the Sculpture Gallery; but there he found no means of concealment.
      He determined to explore elsewhere, and speedily found himself in a magnificent saloon,
      adjoining the library, and where he beheld sofas, with the drapery hanging down to the
      carpet.  
  It was beneath one of these downy sofas that the daring intruder into the royal dwelling
      took refuge; and there, comfortably extended at full length, he chuckled triumphantly at the
      success which had, up to this moment, attended his adventurous undertaking. We have before
      said that he was of very small stature; he was moreover thin and delicate, and easily packed
      away.  
  Some time passed, and no one appeared to interrupt the reflections of Henry Holford. Hour
      after hour glided by; and at length the palace-clock struck nine. Scarcely had the last chime
      died away, when the folding doors were thrown open, and a gorgeous procession of nobles and
      ladies entered the apartment. The magnificence of the dresses worn by England's peeresses and
      high-born dames—the waving plumes, the glittering jewels, the sparkling diamonds,—combined
      with a glorious assemblage of female loveliness, formed a spectacle, at once awe-inspiring,
      ravishing, and delightful. A little in advance of that splendid   cortège  ,—conversing
      easily with the ladies who walked one pace behind her on either hand, and embellished with
      precious stones of regal price,—moved the sovereign of the mightiest empire in the
      universe.  
  Upon her high and polished brow, Victoria wore a tiara of diamonds: diamonds innumerable,
      and of immense value, studded her stomacher; diamond pendants adorned her ears; and diamonds
      also glistened upon her wrists. She walked with grace and dignity; and her noble bearing
      compensated for the shortness of her stature.  
  The queen advanced to the very sofa beneath which Holford lay concealed, and seated herself
      upon it. The ladies and nobles of the court, together with the guests present upon the
      occasion, stood at a respectful distance from the sovereign. The splendour of the scene was
      enhanced by the brilliant uniforms of several military officers of high rank, and the
      court-dresses of the foreign ambassadors. The blaze of light in which the room was bathed, was
      reflected from the diamonds of the ladies, and the stars and orders which the nobles wore upon
      their breasts.  
  At that time Victoria was yet a virgin-queen. If not strictly beautiful, her countenance was
      very pleasing. Her light brown hair was worn quite plain; her blue eyes were animated with
      intellect; and when she smiled, her lips revealed a set of teeth white as Oriental pearls. Her
      bust was magnificent, and her figure good, in spite of the lowness of her stature. Her manner
      was distinguished by somewhat of that impatience which characterised all the family of George
      the Third, and which seemed to result from a slightly nervous temperament. She appeared to
      require answers to her questions more promptly than court etiquette permitted those around her
      to respond to her inquiries. With regard to the condition of the humbler classes of her
      subjects, she was totally ignorant: she knew that they were suffering some distress; but the
      fearful amount of that misery was carefully concealed from her. She only read the journals
      favourable to the ministry; and they took care to report nothing which might offend or wound
      her. Thus, she who should have known every thing relative to her people, in reality scarcely
      knew any thing!  
   clad in the splendid uniform of a General in the French army, and wearing the
      grand cordon of the Legion of Honour,—and Prince Esterhazy, the Austrian Minister, and himself
      the possessor of estates more extensive than many a German principality, wearing a court dress
      covered with lace and glittering with stars.  
  Several members of the English Cabinet were also present. There was one whose good-tempered
      and handsome countenance, gentlemanly demeanour, stout and sturdy form, and complacent smile,
      would hardly have induced a stranger to believe that this was Viscount Melbourne, the Prime
      Minister of England. Next was a short personage, with a refined and intelligent, though by no
      means an imposing air,—a something sharp and cunning in the curl of the mouth, and the flash
      of the eye,—and a weak disagreeable voice, frequently stammering and hesitating at a long
      sentence: this was Lord John Russell, the Secretary for the Home Department. Near Lord John
      Russell was a tall man of about fifty,—very good-looking, with dark and well-curled locks,
      glossy whiskers, and an elegant figure,—but excessively foppish in his attire, and somewhat
      affected in manner;—and this was Lord Palmerston, Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Conversing
      with this nobleman was a personage with pale and sallow cheeks, luxuriant and
      naturally-curling locks,—dark and interesting in appearance, and in the prime of life,—whose
      conversation denoted him to be a man of elegant taste, and whose manners were those of a
      finished gentleman; but who little suited the idea which a stranger would have formed of a
      great viceroy or a responsible minister:—nevertheless, this was the Marquis of Normanby,
      lately Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, and at the time of which we are speaking, Secretary for the
      Colonies.  
  The conversation turned upon the specimens of art in the gallery of sculpture, which the
      noble company had just visited. In this manner an hour passed away; and at the expiration of
      that period, the queen and her numerous guests repaired to the drawing-rooms on the first
      floor, where arrangements had been made for a grand musical entertainment.  
  The entire pageantry was viewed with ease, and the conversation plainly heard, by the
      plebeian intruder upon that scene of patrician splendour, and glory, and wealth. The musical
      tones of the queen's voice had fallen upon his ears: he had listened to the words of great
      lords and high-born ladies. At that moment how little, how contemptible did he feel himself to
      be! Never had he entertained so humble an opinion of his own worth and value in society as he
      did at that period. He—a common pot-boy in a public-house—had for an hour been the unseen
      companion of a queen and her mightiest paladins and loveliest dames;—and had he been
      discovered in his retreat, he would have been turned ignominiously forth, like the man in the
      parable who went to the marriage-feast without a wedding-garment.  
  For two more mortal hours did Holford remain beneath the sofa, crampled by his recumbent and
      uneasy position, and already more than half inclined to regret the adventure upon which he had
      so precipitately entered.  
  At length the palace grew quiet, and servants entered the room in which Holford was
      concealed, to extinguish the lights. The moment that this duty was performed, and the
      domestics had withdrawn, Holford emerged from beneath the sofa, and seated himself upon it. He
      was proud to think that he now occupied the place where royalty had so lately been. The voice
      of the queen still seemed to ring in his ears; and he felt an unknown and unaccountable
      species of happiness in recalling to mind and pondering upon all that had fallen from her
      lips. At that moment how he envied those peers and high-born dames who were privileged to
      approach the royal presence and bask beneath the smile of the sovereign;—how he wished that
      his lot had been cast in a different sphere! But—no! it was useless to regret what could not
      be remedied; and, although he was now in a palace, and seated upon the very cushion which a
      few hours previously had been pressed by royalty, he was not one atom less Henry Holford, the
      pot-boy!  
  The reverie of this extraordinary youth was long. Visions the most wild and fantastical
      sustained a powerful excitement in his imagination. At length the clock struck two. Holford
      awoke from his strange meditations, and collected his scattered ideas.  
  He now felt the cravings of hunger, and determined to explore the palace in search of food.
      He had already seen enough of its geography to be enabled to guess the precise position of the
      servants' offices; and thither he now directed his steps. He reached the great marble hall,
      which was lighted by lamps: there was no one there. He crossed it, and proceeded along those
      passages which he had already threaded a few hours before. After wandering about for some
      time, and, to his infinite surprise and joy, without encountering a soul, he reached the
      servants' offices. A short search conducted him to a well-stored larder. Some of the dishes
      had evidently been put away in a hurry, for silver spoons and forks had been left in them.
      Holford might have possessed himself of property of considerable value: but such an idea never
      for a moment entered his head. He moreover contented himself with the simplest food he could
      find; then, remembering that four-and-twenty hours might elapse ere he should be enabled to
      return to the larder, he supplied himself with a sufficient amount of provender to last during
      that interval.  
  Having adopted this precaution, he stole back again to the room where the friendly sofa had
      already afforded a secure hiding-place. He once more crept beneath the costly drapery,
      extended himself upon his back, and fell asleep.  
  
  CHAPTER LIX. THE ROYAL LOVERS.  
  HOLFORD awoke with a start.  
  At that moment the time-piece upon the mantel struck five. It was still quite dark.  
  The young man felt cold and nervous. He had dreamt that he was discovered and ejected from
      the palace amidst the jeers and taunts of the servants. He now suddenly recollected that the
      domestics would most probably soon arrive to cleanse and arrange the apartment; and detection
      in that case must be certain.  
  It struck him that he had better endeavour to escape at once from the royal dwelling. Then
      he thought and fondly flattered himself that the same good fortune which had hitherto attended
      him in this adventure would still follow him. This idea has caused many a hesitating mind to
      decide upon pursuing a career of crime, or folly, or peril. So was it with Holford; and he
      resolved to remain in the palace at least a short time longer.  
   him that the highest storeys of the building were those best calculated for this
      purpose. Leaving the apartment in which he had availed himself of the friendly sofa, and
      which, as before stated, was in the immediate vicinity of the Sculpture Gallery upon the
      ground-floor, he passed through the Library, and returned to the great hall. Ascending a
      magnificent marble staircase, he reached the Picture Gallery. Every here and there lamps were
      burning, and thus he was enabled to inspect all the scenes of magnificence and splendour
      through which he passed.  
  The Picture Gallery in Buckingham Palace is immediately over the Sculpture Gallery, and
      forms a wide passage separating the Green Drawing Room, the Throne Room, and other state
      apartments from the Roman, the Yellow, and the little drawing rooms. The Yellow Drawing Room
      is the largest and most splendid of the suite. The furniture is all richly carved, and is
      overlaid with burnished gilding and covered with yellow satin. The wall is surrounded by
      polished pillars of syenite marble; and on each panel is painted a portrait of some royal
      personage.  
  The Dining Room also leads out of the Picture Gallery. This gallery itself is decorated and
      adorned upon classic models. The frames of the pictures are very plain, but neat, and
      appropriated to the style of the architecture. There is nothing gorgeous in this gallery:
      every thing is in good taste; and yet the mouldings and fret-work of the ceiling are of the
      most elaborate description. The pictures in the gallery are all originals by eminent masters,
      and are the private property of the sovereign.  
  It may be here observed that the queen is passionately attached to the Fine Arts, in which,
      indeed, she is a proficient. In every room of the palace there are some excellent paintings;
      and in each apartment occupied by the queen, with the exception of the Throne Room, there is a
      grand pianoforte.  
  With a lamp in his hand, Henry Holford proceeded through those magnificent apartments which
      communicated with the Picture Gallery. He was astonished at the assemblage of wealth and
      splendour that met his eyes on every side. From time to time he seated himself upon the
      softest ottomans, and in the gilded chairs—in every place where he deemed it probable that the
      queen might have rested. At length he reached the Throne Room. The imperial seat itself was
      covered over with a velvet cloth, to protect it against the dust. Holford removed the cloth;
      and the splendours of the throne were revealed to him.  
  He hesitated for a moment: he felt as if he were committing a species of sacrilege;—then
      triumphing over this feeling—a feeling which had appeared like a remorse—he ascended the steps
      of the throne;—he placed himself in the seat of England's monarch.  
  Had the sceptre been there he would have grasped it;—had the crown been within his reach, he
      would have placed it upon his head!  
  But time pressed; and he was compelled to leave those apartments in which a strange and
      unaccountable fascination induced him to linger. He ascended a staircase leading to another
      storey; and now he proceeded with extreme caution, for he conceived that he must be in the
      immediate vicinity of the royal sleeping apartments. He hastened up to the highest storey he
      could reach, and entered several passages from which doors opened on either side. One of these
      doors was ajar; the light of a lamp in the passage enabled him to ascertain that the chamber
      into which it led was full of old furniture, trunks, boxes, bedding, and other lumber. This
      was precisely the place which suited the adventurous pot-boy; and he hastened to conceal
      himself amidst a pile of mattresses which formed a secure, warm, and comfortable berth.  
  Here he again fell asleep; and when he awoke the sun was shining brightly. He partook of his
      provisions with a good appetite, and then deliberated within himself what course he should
      pursue. He felt madly anxious to be near the person of the queen once more: he longed to hear
      her voice again;—he resolved to risk every thing to gratify these inclinations.  
  He began to understand that the vast extent of the palace, and the many different ways of
      reaching the various floors and suites of apartments, constituted the elements of his safety,
      and greatly diminished the risk of encountering any of the inmates of the royal dwelling. He
      was insane enough, moreover, to believe that some good genius or especial favour of fortune
      protected him; and these impressions were sufficiently powerful to induce him to attempt any
      fresh enterprise within the walls of the palace.  
  While he was debating within himself how he should proceed in order to satisfy his
      enthusiastic curiosity, the door suddenly opened, and two female servants of the royal
      household entered the lumber-room.  
  Holford's heart sank within him: his limbs seemed paralysed; his breath failed him.  
  "The entertainment takes place in the Yellow and Roman Drawing Rooms this evening," said
      one.  
  "The prince is expected at five o'clock," observed the other. "He and his father the Duke of
      Saxe Coburg Gotha, are to land at Woolwich between two and three."  
  "So I heard. The royal carriages have already left to meet her Majesty's guests."  
  "Have you ever seen the prince?"  
  "Once. He was in England, I remember, a short time previous to the accession of her
      Majesty."  
  "Is he good looking?"  
  "Very. Of course you believe as I do, and as every one else does that Prince Albert of Saxe
      Coburg will——"  
  "Soon be Prince Albert of England."  
  "Hush! walls have ears!"  
  The servants having discovered the article of furniture which was the object of their
      search, left the room—greatly to the relief of Henry Holford, whose presence they never for a
      moment suspected.  
  Holford had thus accidentally learnt some information which served to guide his plans. The
      evening's entertainment was to take place in the Yellow Drawing Room—an apartment which he
      could not fail to recognise by the colour, as one which he had visited before day-break that
      morning. He had heard of Prince Albert, whom rumour had already mentioned as the happy being
      who had attracted the queen's favour. Every circumstance now lent its aid to induce the
      enthusiastic lad to resolve upon penetrating into the Yellow Drawing Room, by some means or
      another, during the afternoon.  
  It struck the intruder that if the queen intended to receive company in the Yellow
      Drawing-room in the evening, she would most probably welcome her illustrious guests from
      Germany in some other apartment. He knew, from the conversation of the two female servants,
      that the Grand Duke of Saxe-Coburg Gotha and Prince Albert, were to arrive at five: he
      presumed that the inmates of the palace would assemble in those points where they could
      command a view of the ducal   cortège   to the conclusion that the coast would be most clear for his purposes, at five
      o'clock.  
  Nor was he wrong in his conjectures; for scarcely had two minutes elapsed after the clock
      had proclaimed the hour of five, when Henry Holford was safely ensconced beneath a sofa in the
      Yellow Drawing Room.  
  At eight o'clock the servants entered and lighted the lamps. The colour of the paper and the
      satin of the furniture enhanced the splendour of the effulgence thus created in that
      magnificent saloon.  
  At half-past nine the door opened again; and Holford's heart beat quickly, for he now
      expected the appearance of the sovereign and her guests. But, no—not yet. Two ladies attached
      to the court, entered the drawing-room, and seated themselves upon the sofa beneath which
      Holford lay concealed.  
  "Well—what think you of the young prince?" said one. "Your grace was seated next to
      him."  
  "Very handsome—and so unassuming," was the reply.  
  "Does your grace really believe that her Majesty is smitten?"  
  "No doubt of it. How fortunate for the family of the Grand Duke of Saxe-Coburg!"  
  "Yes—fortunate on the score of alliance."  
  "And in a pecuniary point of view."  
  "Not so much as your grace thinks. There has been an absurd report in circulation that the
      grand duke's revenues are so small, none of his family could venture to appear at the court of
      Vienna: and also, that the means of education for the younger branches were always excessively
      restricted."  
  "And are not these reports correct, countess?"  
  "By no means. Your grace probably is aware that the earl and myself visited Germany the year
      before last; and we remained six weeks at Gotha. The Duke of Saxe-Coburg possesses a
      considerable civil list, and a large private fortune. His brother Ferdinand espoused the
      wealthy Princess Kohary of Hungary; and another brother, Leopold, married our lamented
      Princess Charlotte. It has been stated that Prince Leopold himself was a simple major in the
      Austrian service, with nothing but his pay, when he was fortunate enough to obtain the favour
      of the Princess Charlotte: this is so far from being correct, that he never was in the
      Austrian service at all, but was a general officer in the Russian army, enjoying, in addition
      to his full pay, a princely allowance from his country."  
  "Your ladyship has greatly pleased me with these elucidations."  
  "Your grace honours me with this mark of satisfaction. Prince Albert was educated at Bonn,
      on the Rhine. His mental qualifications are said to be of a very high order; his disposition
      is amiable; and he has obtained the affections of all who know him in Germany."  
  "It is to be hoped that her most gracious Majesty will enjoy a long, prosperous, and happy
      reign," said the duchess, in a tone of unfeigned sincerity.  
  "Long and prosperous it may be," returned the countess, with a strange solemnity of voice
      and manner; "but happy for her—happy for the sovereign whom we all so much love,—no—that is
      impossible!"  
  "Alas! I know to what you allude," observed the duchess, her tone also changing. "Merciful
      heavens! is there, then, no perfect happiness in this world?"  
  "Where shall perfect happiness be found?" exclaimed the countess, in a voice of deep
      melancholy, and with a profound sigh. "Never did any sovereign ascend the throne under more
      favourable circumstances than Victoria. Enshrined in a nation's heart—beloved by millions of
      human beings,—wearing the proudest diadem in the universe, and swaying the sceptre of a
      dominion extensive as that of Rome, in her most glorious days,—oh! why should not Victoria be
      completely happy? Alas! she can command the affections of her people by her conduct:—the
      valour of her subjects, the prowess of her generals, and the dauntless courage of her
      admirals, can preserve her empire from all encroachment—all peril;—wealth can surround her
      with every luxury, and all the potentates of the earth may seek her friendship;—but no
      power—no dominion—no wealth—no luxury—no love, can exterminate the seeds——"  
  "Ah! countess—for God's sake, talk not in this manner!" ejaculated the duchess: "you make me
      melancholy—so melancholy, that I shall be dispirited the entire evening."  
  "Pardon me, my dear friend; but I know not how our discourse gradually turned upon so sad a
      subject. And yet the transition must have been natural," added the countess, in a mournful and
      plaintive voice; "for, most assuredly, I should not have voluntarily sought to converse upon
      so sad a theme."  
  "Sad!" cried the duchess; "'tis sufficient to make one's heart bleed. To think that a young
      creature whom millions and millions of beings idolize and adore—whose name is upon every
      lip—whose virtues and qualifications are the theme of every pen—whose slightest wish amounts
      to a command,—oh! to think that this envied and amiable being should be haunted, day and
      night—alone, or when surrounded by all that is most noble or most lovely in England's
      aristocracy,—haunted by that dread fear—that appalling alarm—that dismal apprehension;—oh! it
      is intolerable!"  
  "Alas!" said the countess; "what poor—what miserable creatures are we! The hand of the Deity
      mingles gall with the cup of nectar which is drunk by his elect! There is no situation in life
      without its vexations."  
  "Yes—vexations of all kinds!" echoed the duchess; "for those annoyances which are mere
      trifles to the lower classes, are grievous afflictions to us. But——"  
  At that moment the time-piece upon the mantel proclaimed the half-hour after ten; and the
      two ladies rose from the sofa, observing to each other, that it was time to hasten to attend
      upon the person of their royal mistress. They then withdrew.  
  It may be supposed that Holford had not lost one word of the above conversation. He had
      greedily drunk in every word;—but the concluding portion of it had filled him with the most
      anxious curiosity, and with wonder. To what did those dark, mysterious hints bear reference?
      And how could the happiness of the sovereign be incomplete? Those two noble ladies had
      detailed all the elements of felicity which formed the basis of the queen's position; and
      surely sufficient had been enumerated to prove the perfection of her happiness. And yet,
      allusion was made to one source of perpetual fear—one cause of unmixed alarm—one object of
      ever-present dread, by which the queen was haunted on all occasions. What could this be?
      Conjecture was vain—imagination could suggest nothing calculated to explain this strange
      mystery.  
   the queen's right hand walked Prince Albert, the sovereign leaning gently upon
      his arm. He was dressed in a court-garb, and wore a foreign order upon his breast. Of slight
      form and slender make, his figure was wanting in manliness; but his deportment was graceful.
      His eyes beamed kindness; and there was something peculiarly sweet and pleasant in his smile.
      His countenance was expressive of intellect; his conversation was amusing. He was evidently a
      very pleasant companion; and when Victoria and Albert walked down the saloon together, there
      appeared a certain fitness in their union which was calculated to strike the most common
      beholder.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The queen and the prince seated themselves upon the sofa beneath which the pot-boy was
      concealed; and their conversation was plainly overheard by him. The noble and beauteous
      guests—the lords and the ladies of the court—withdrew to a distance; and the royal lovers—for
      such already were Victoria and Albert—enjoyed the pleasures of a   tête-à-tête  . We
      shall not record any portion of their discourse—animated, interesting, and tender though it
      were: suffice it to say, that for a short time they seemed to forget their high rank, and to
      throw aside the trammels of court etiquette, in order to give vent to those natural feelings
      which the sovereign has in common with the peasant.  
  This   tête-à-tête   lasted for nearly an hour: music and dancing then ensued; and the
      entertainment continued until two o'clock in the morning.  
  The company retired—the lights were extinguished in the state apartments—and profound
      silence once more reigned throughout the palace.  
  Holford paid another visit to the larder, and then retraced his steps unobserved to the
      lumber-room, where he slept until a late hour in the morning.  
  
  CHAPTER LX. REVELATIONS.  
   of conduct and demeanour which they enforce. The rigid maintenance of these
      rules is nevertheless calculated to render the queen an isolated being, as it were, amidst her
      court; for no one is permitted to commence a conversation nor make a remark until first
      addressed by her Majesty. Then every word must be so measured—every syllable so weighed, that
      the mere fact of conversing with royalty would be deemed a complete labour, and even a
      perilous undertaking by those not conversant with the routine of a court.  
  Holford had seen much to surprise and astonish him. The image of the queen ever haunted his
      imagination: her voice ever rang in his ears. He disliked Prince Albert: that low, vulgar,
      uneducated, despised, obscure pot-boy, entertained a feeling of animosity,—he scarcely knew
      wherefore—against the young German who was evidently destined to become the husband of
      England's queen. Again and again did he ponder upon the mysterious conversation between the
      two ladies of the court, which he had overheard;—and he felt an ardent and insuperable longing
      to fathom their meaning to the bottom. But how was this to be done? He determined to obtain
      access to the drawing-room once more, and trust to the chapter of accidents to elucidate the
      mystery.  
  Accordingly, he contrived that same afternoon, to obtain access to the royal apartments,
      without detection, once more; and once more, also, did he conceal himself beneath the sofa.
      Fortune appeared to favour his views and wishes. Not many minutes had elapsed after he had
      ensconced himself in his hiding-place, when the two ladies, whose conversation had so much
      interested him on the preceding day, slowly entered the Yellow Drawing-Room.  
  The following dialogue then took place:—  
  "How very awkward the viscount was last evening, my dear duchess. He would insist upon
      turning the pages for me when I sate at the grand pianoforte; and he was always too soon or
      too late, although he pretended to read the   fantasia   which I played, bar by bar."  
  "That is very provoking!" said the duchess. "I believe there is to be a Drawing-Room
      to-morrow, at St. James's?"  
  "Yes: your grace must have forgotten that her Majesty decided last evening upon holding
      one."  
  "How many a young heart is fluttering now with anxiety and eager anticipation of to-morrow!"
      observed the duchess. "A Drawing-Room is most formidable to the novice in court affairs. But
      the most entertaining portion of the embarrassment of the novice, is the fear that the
      gentleman who bears the name of the   Court Circular  , and who is invariably stationed
      in the Presence Chamber, may omit to mention her presence in the report which he draws up for
      the newspapers."  
  "George the Third and his consort held Drawing-Rooms weekly, for many years," said the
      countess. "George the Fourth held Drawing-Rooms but very seldom. William and Adelaide usually
      held about five or six in a season. And, after all, what can be more magnificent—what more
      eminently calculated to sustain the honour and dignity of the crown,  target="#ENG18460_N072" [72]   than a British Court Drawing-Room? The tasteful dresses of
      the ladies—the blaze of diamonds—the waving ostrich plumes and lappets—the gold net—the costly
      tulle, constitute rather the characterstics of an oriental fiction than the reality of the
      present day."  
  "The most magnificent Drawing-Rooms, in my opinion," observed the duchess, "are those which
      we call   Collar Days  . The appearance of the Knights of the Garter, St. Patrick, the
      Thistle, the Cross and Bath, and all English orders, in their respective collars and jewels,
      in the presence of the sovereign, is splendid in the extreme."  
  "And how crowded upon Drawing-Room days are all the passages and corridors of St. James's
      Palace," continued the countess. "On the last occasion many of the peers and peeresses of the
      highest rank were compelled thus to wait for nearly three hours before their carriages could
      reach the palace-gates."  
  "The most beautiful view of splendid equipages is found in a glance upon the Ambassador's
      Court at Saint James's, the carriages of the foreign ministers being decidedly the finest and
      most tasteful that are seen in the vicinity of the palace on those occasions."  
  "Of a truth, this must be the most splendid court in the world," said the countess,—"since
      France became half republican (how I hate the odious word   Republic  !), and since Spain
      was compelled to copy France."  
  "Yes—our court is the most splendid in the world," echoed the duchess, in a tone of triumph,
      as if her grace were well aware that of that court she herself formed a brilliant ornament;
      "and more splendid still will it be when the queen shall have conferred her hand upon the
      interesting young prince who arrived yesterday."  
  "Have you heard when the royal intentions to contract an union with his Serene Highness
      Prince Albert, will be communicated to the country?"  
  "Not until the close of the year; and the marriage will therefore take place at the
      commencement of 1840. The prince will pay but a short visit upon this occasion, and then
      return to Germany until within a short period of the happy day."  
  "God send that the union may be a happy one!" ejaculated the countess. "But——"  
  "Oh! my dear friend, do not relapse again into those gloomy forebodings which rendered me
      melancholy all yesterday evening," interrupted the duchess.  
  "Alas! your grace is well aware of my devoted attachment to our royal mistress; and if there
      be times when I tremble for the consequences of——"  
  "Breathe it not—give not utterance to the bare idea!" cried the duchess, in a tone of the
      most unfeigned horror. "Providence will never permit an entire empire to experience so great a
      misfortune as this!"  
  "Maladies of that kind are hereditary," said the countess, solemnly;—"maladies of that
      species descend through generations—unsparing—pitiless—regardless of rank, power, or
      position;—oh! it is horrible to contemplate!"  
  "Horrible—most horrible!" echoed the duchess. "The mind that thus labours under constant
      terror of the approach of that fearful malady, requires incessant excitement—perpetual change
      of scene; and this restlessness which we have observed on the part of our beloved
      Sovereign—and those intervals of deep gloom and depression of spirits, when that craving after
      variety and bustle is not indulged—"  
  "Are all——"  
  "Oh! I comprehend you too well."  
  "And marriage in such a case——"  
   surround our sovereign with all our love, all our affection, all our
      devotion—for bitter, bitter are the moments of solitary meditation experienced at intervals by
      our adored mistress."  
  "Such is our duty—such our desire," said the countess. "The entire family of George the
      Third has inherited the seeds of disease—physical and mental——"  
  "Scrofula and insanity," said the duchess, with a cold shudder.  
  "Which were inherent in that monarch," added the countess. "Did your grace ever hear the
      real cause and spring of that development of mental alienation in George the Third?"  
  "I know not precisely to what incident your ladyship alludes," said the duchess.  
  "That unhappy sovereign," resumed the countess, "when Prince of Wales, fell in love with a
      beautiful young Quakeress, whose name was Hannah Lightfoot, and whom he first beheld at the
      window of a house in Saint James's Street. For some time his Royal Highness and the young lady
      met in secret, and enjoyed each other's society. At length the passion of the prince arrived
      at that point when he discovered that his happiness entirely depended upon his union with
      Hannah Lightfoot. His Royal Highness confided his secret to his next brother Edward, to Dr.
      Wilmot (who was really the author of the letters of Junius), and to my mother. Those
      personages were the only witnesses of the legal marriage of the Prince of Wales with Hannah
      Lightfoot, which was solemnized by Dr. Wilmot, in Curzon Street Chapel, May Fair, in the year
      1759."  
  "I have heard that such a connection existed," said the duchess; "but I never thought until
      now that it was of so serious and solemn a nature."  
  "Your grace may rely upon the truth of what I now tell you. Not long after the prince came
      to the throne, the Ministers discovered his connection with the Quakeress. The 'Royal Marriage
      Act' was ultimately framed to prevent such occurrences with regard to future princes; but it
      did not annul the union between George the Third and Hannah Lightfoot."  
  "Was there any issue from this marriage?" inquired the duchess.  
  "There   was   issue," answered the countess solemnly, a deep gloom suddenly passing
      over her countenance. "At my mother's death I discovered certain papers which revealed to me
      many, many strange events connected with the court of George the Third; and in which she was a
      confidant. But the history of Hannah Lightfoot is a sad one—a very melancholy one; and
      positively can I assert that it led to the subsequent mental aberration of the king."  
  "And there was issue resulting from that union, your ladyship says?" exclaimed the duchess,
      deeply interested in these disclosures.  
  "Yes—there was, there was!" returned the countess. "But do not question me any more at
      present—on a future occasion I will place in the hands of your grace the papers which my
      deceased mother left behind her, and which I have carefully treasured up in secret—unknown
      even to my husband!"  
  "And are the revelations so very interesting?" demanded the duchess.  
  "The events which have taken place in the family of George the Third would make your hair
      stand on end," replied the countess, sinking her voice almost to a whisper. "But,
      pray—question me no more at present. Another time—another time," she added hastily, "you shall
      know all that I know!"  
  There was something so exceedingly mysterious and exciting in the tone and manner of the
      countess, that the duchess evidently burned with curiosity to make further inquiries. But her
      fair companion avoided the subject with terror and disgust; and the conversation accordingly
      reverted to the engagement existing between Prince Albert and Queen Victoria. Nothing more
      was, however, said which we deem it necessary to record;—but when the two ladies had retired
      from the apartment, Holford had plenty of food for mental digestion. He had discovered the
      fatal drawback to the perfect happiness of his sovereign; and he now perceived that those who
      dwell in palaces, and wear diadems upon their brows, are not beyond the reach of the sharpest
      arrows of misfortune.  
  During the remainder of that evening Holford was the uninterrupted possessor of the Yellow
      Drawing-Room. There was a grand ball in another suite of apartments; but it was not until
      between three and four o'clock in the morning that the pot-boy considered it safe to quit his
      hiding-place.  
  He was now undecided whether to beat a retreat from the royal dwelling, or to favour it with
      his presence a little longer. The last conversation which he had overheard between the duchess
      and the countess, had excited within him the most lively interest; and he was anxious to hear
      more of those strange revelations connected with the family of George the Third, a
      continuation of which the countess had appeared to promise her noble friend. He was moreover
      emboldened by the success which had hitherto attended his adventures in the palace; and he
      consequently resolved upon prolonging his stay in a place where a morbid taste for the
      romantic encountered such welcome food.  
  Upon leaving the Yellow Drawing-Room, at about half-past three in the morning, as before
      stated, Holford proceeded to the pantry to lay in a supply of provender, as usual. He was so
      pressed with hunger upon this occasion, that he commenced an immediate attack upon the
      provisions; and was thus pleasantly engaged when, to his horror and dismay, he beheld the
      shadow of a human form suddenly pass along the wall—for he was standing with his back to the
      lamp that was burning in the passage.  
  He turned round—and his eyes encountered the cadaverous and sinister countenance of the
      Resurrection Man.  
  "Well this   is   fortunate," said the latter.  
  "What! you here!" ejaculated Holford, trembling from head to foot.  
  "Yes—certainly: why not?" said the Resurrection Man. "It struck me that as you never came
      near me and the Cracksman, you must be still in the royal crib; and I considered that to be a
      sign that all was right. So I mustered up my courage, and came to look after you. The
      Cracksman's waiting on the hill."  
  "Then let us leave this place immediately," cried Holford. "We can do nothing at present—I
      was going to take my departure within an hour. Come—let us go; and I will tell you every thing
      when we are in a place of security."  
  "What's the meaning of this?" demanded the Resurrection Man. "You can't have been here all
      this time without having found out where the plate is kept."  
   to do what you require; and I can give you all the information you will want. At
      present nothing can be done—nothing; and if we stay here much longer we shall be
      discovered."  
  "Well," said the Resurrection Man; "provided that some good will result from your
      visit——"  
  "There will—there will."  
  "Then I must follow your advice; for of course you are better able to judge of what can be
      done and what can't be done in this crib, than me."  
  The Resurrection Man glanced around him; but fortunately there was no plate left upon the
      shelves on this occasion. Holford felt inwardly pleased at this circumstance; for the idea of
      abstracting anything beyond a morsel of food from the palace was abhorrent to his mind.  
  The Resurrection Man intimated that he was ready to depart; and the pot-boy was only too
      glad to be the means of hurrying him away.  
  They left the palace, and entered the gardens, which they threaded in safety. A profound
      silence reigned around: the morning air was chill and piercing. The fresh atmosphere was
      nevertheless most welcome and cheering to the young pot-boy, who had passed so many hours in
      close and heated rooms.  
  They reached the wall on Constitution Hill in safety, and in a few moments were beyond the
      enclosure of the royal domains.  
  
  CHAPTER LXI. THE "BOOZING KEN" ONCE MORE.  
  MORNING dawned upon the great metropolis.  
  The landlord and landlady of the "Boozing-Ken" on Saffron Hill were busily employed, as we
      have seen them upon a former occasion, in dispensing glasses of "all sorts" to their numerous
      customers. The bar was surrounded by every thing the most revolting, the most hideous, and the
      most repulsive in human shape.  
  "Well, Joe," said the landlord to a man dressed like a butcher, and whose clothes emitted a
      greasy and carrion-like smell, "what news down at Cow Cross?"  
  "Nothink partikler," answered the man, who followed the pleasant and agreeable calling of a
      journeyman-knacker. "We have been precious full of work lately—and that's all I knows or cares
      about. Seventy-nine horses I see knocked down yesterday; and out of them, fifty-three was so
      awful diseased and glandered when they was brought in, that we was obleeged to kill 'em and
      cut 'em up with masks and gloves on. It was but three weeks ago that we lost our best man, Ben
      Biddle:—you recollects Ben Biddle?"  
  "I knowed him well," said the landlord. "He took his 'morning' here reglar for sixteen
      years, and never owed a penny."  
  "But do you know how he died?" demanded the knacker, staring the landlord significantly in
      the face.  
  "Can't say that I do."  
  "He died of a fearful disease which is getting more and more amongst human creeturs every
      day," continued the knacker:—"he died of the glanders!"  
  "The glanders!" ejaculated the landlady, with a shudder; and all the persons who were taking
      their "morning" at the bar crowded around the knacker to hear the particulars of Ben Biddle's
      death.  
  "You see," resumed the knacker, now putting on a very solemn and important air, "there is
      more diseased horses sold in Smithfield-Market than sound 'uns. The art of doctoring a dying
      horse so that he looks as lively and sound as possible to any one which ain't wery knowing in
      them matters, is come to sich a pitch, that I'm blowed if the wisest ain't taken in at times.
      We have horses come into our yard that was bought the same morning in Smithfield, and seemed
      slap-up animals; but in a few hours the effects of the stimulants given to 'em goes off, the
      plugs falls out of their noses, and there they are at the point of death. Why—if a horse has
      got four white feet, they'll paint three, or perhaps all on 'em black; and   that part  
      of the deception isn't never found out till they're flayed in our yard."  
  "But about poor Biddle?" said the landlord.  
  "Well, in comes a horse one day," continued the knacker; "and although we saw he was dead
      lame and altogether done up, we never suspected that he had the glanders. So Ben Biddle had
      the killing on him. He drives the pole-axe into the animal's skull; and he takes the wire and
      thrusts it into the brain as business-like as possible. While he was stooping over the beast,
      his hat falls off his head, and his handkerchief, which he always carried in his hat, fell
      just upon the horse's mouth. The brute snorted out a last groan at the wery moment that Ben
      picks up his handkerchief. So Ben puts the handkerchief again into his hat, and puts his hat
      upon his head; and away we all goes to the public-house to have a drop of half-and-half."  
  "Very right too," said the landlord who no doubt spoke feelingly.  
  "Well," proceeded the knacker, "Ben drinks his share, and presently he takes his
      handkerchief out of his hat quite permiscuous like, and wipes his face. In a few minutes he
      feels a strange pain in the eyes just as if some dust had got in;—but he did'nt think much on
      it, and so we all goes back to the yard. In a few hours Ben was taken so bad he was obliged to
      give up work; and by eight or nine o'clock we was forced to take him to Bartholomew's
      Hospital. He was seized with dreadful fits of womiting; and matter come out of his nose, eyes,
      and month. By the morning his face was all covered over with sores; holes appeared in his
      eyes, just for all the world as if they had got a most tremendous small-pox in 'em; and his
      nose fell off. By three o'clock in the arternoon he was a dead man; and I heerd say that he
      died in the most awful agonies."  
  "And that was the glanders?" said the landlady.  
  "Yes: he got 'em by wiping his face with the pocket-handkerchief that had fallen on the
      horse's nostrils."  
  "How shocking!" ejaculated several voices.  
  "And is the glanders increasing?" asked the landlord.  
  "The glanders   is   increasing," answered the knacker; "and I feel convinced that it
      will soon become a disease as reglar amongst human beings as the small-pox or measles; 'cos
      the authorities doesn't do their duty in preventing the sale of diseased animals."  
  "And how would you remedy the evil?"  
  "I would have the Lord Mayor and Corporation appoint a proper veterinary surgeon as
      Inspector in Smithfield Market—a man of great experience and knowledge, who won't let himself
      be humbugged or gammoned by any of those infernal thieves that gets a living—aye, and makes
      fortunes too, by selling diseased animals doctored up for the occasion."  
    
  "You may divide the horses that's killed by the knacker into three sorts," answered the man:
      "that is—first, those horses that is quite healthy but that has met with accidents in their
      limbs; second, those that is perhaps the least thing diseased, or in the wery last stage
      through old age; and third, those that is altogether rotten. The flesh of the first is bought
      by men whose business it is to boil it carefully, and sell it to the sassage-makers: it makes
      the sassages firm, and is much better than beef. There isn't a sassage shop in London that
      don't use it. Then the tongues of these first-rate animals goes to the butchers, who salts and
      pickles 'em: and I'm blow'd if any one could tell 'em from the best ox-tongues."  
  "Well, I'll never eat sassages or tongues again!" cried the landlady.  
  "Oh! nonsense—it's all fancy!" exclaimed the knacker. "Half the tongues that is sold for
      ox-tongues is horses' tongues. A knowing hand may always tell 'em, 'cos they're rayther longer
      and thinner: for my part, I like 'em just as well—every bit."  
  "And the flesh of the second sort of horses?"  
  "That goes to supply the cat's-meat men in the swell neighbourhoods; and the third sort,
      that is altogether putrid and rotten, is taken up by the cat's-meat men in the poor
      neighbourhoods."  
  "And do you mean to say that there's a difference even in cat's-meat between the rich and
      the poor customers?" demanded the landlord.  
  "Do I mean to say so?" repeated the knacker, in a tone which showed that he was surprised at
      the question being asked: "why, of course I do! The poor may be pisoned—and very often is
      too—for what the rich cares a fig. I can tell you more too: some of the first class
      horses'-meat—the sound and good, remember—is made into what's called   hung-beef  ; some
      is potted; some is sold to the boarding-schools round London, where they takes in young
      gen'lemen and ladies at a wery low rate; and some is disposed of—but, no—I don't dare tell
      you—"  
  "Yes—do tell us!" said the landlady, in a coaxing tone.  
  "Do—there's a good fellow," cried the landlord.  
  "Come, tell us," exclaimed a dozen voices.  
  "No—no—I can't—I should get myself into a scrape, perhaps," said the knacker, who was only
      putting a more keen edge upon the curiosity which he had excited, for he intended to yield all
      the time.  
  "We won't say a word," observed the landlady.  
  "And I'll stand a quartern of blue ruin," added the landlord, "with three outs—for you, me,
      and the missus."  
  "Well—if I must, I must," said the knacker, with affected reluctance. "The fact is," he
      continued slowly, as if he were weighing every word he uttered, "some of the primest bits of
      the first-rate flesh that goes out of the knackers' yards of this wast metropolis is sent to
      the workuses!"  
  "The workhouses!" ejaculated the landlady: "oh, what a horror!"  
  "An abomination!" cried the landlord, filling three wine-glasses with gin.  
  "It is God's truth—and now that I've said it, I'll stick to it," said the knacker.  
  "It's a shame—a burning shame!" screamed a female voice. "My poor old mother's in the Union,
      after having paid rates and taxes for forty-two year; and if they make her eat horse's flesh,
      I'd like to know whether this country is governed by savages or not."  
  "And my brother's in a workus too," said a poor decrepit old man; "and he once kept his
      carriage and dined in company with George the Third at Guildhall, where he'd no end of turtle
      and venison. But, lack-a-daisy! this is a sad falling off, if he's to come down to horse-flesh
      in his old age."  
  "What's the use of all this here whining and nonsense, eh?" exclaimed the knacker. "Don't I
      tell you that good horse-flesh answers all the purposes of beef, and is eaten by the rich in
      the shape of sassages and tongues? What's the use, then, of making a fuss about it? How do you
      suppose the sassage-shops can afford to sell solid meat, without bone, at the price they do,
      if they didn't mix it with horses'-flesh? They pays two-pence a-pound for the first-class
      flesh—and so it must be good."  
  "Never mind," ejaculated a voice: "it's a shame to give paupers only a few ounces of meat
      a-week, and let   that   be horses'-flesh. It's high time these things was put an end to.
      Why don't the people take their own affairs in their own hands?"  
  "Come, now," said the knacker, assuming a dictatorial air, and placing his arms akimbo;
      "perhaps you ain't aweer that good first-class horses'-flesh is better than half the meat that
      is sold in certain markets—I shan't say which—for the benefit of the poor. Now you toddle out
      on Sunday night, on the Holloway, Liverpool, Mile End, and Hackney roads, and see the sheep,
      and oxen, and calves, coming into London for the next morning's market. Numbers of the poor
      beasts fall down and die through sheer fatigue. They're flayed and cut up all the same for the
      butcher's market. And what do you think becomes of all the beasts that die of disease and so
      on, in the fields? Do you suppose they're wasted? No such a thing!   They   are all cut
      up   too   for consumption. Just take a walk on a Saturday night through a certain
      market,   after   the gas is lighted—not   before  , mind—and look at the meat which
      is marked cheap. You'll see beef at two-pence half-penny a pound, and veal at three-pence. But
      what sort of stuff is it? Diseased—rotten! The butchers rub it over with fresh suet or fat,
      and that gives it a brighter appearance and a better smell. Howsomever, they can't perwent the
      meat from being quite thin, shrunk, poor, and flabby upon the bone."  
  "I'll bear witness to the truth of all wot you've been saying this last time," said a
      butcher's lad, stepping forward.  
  "Of course you can," exclaimed the knacker, casting a triumphant glance around him. "And do
      you know," he continued, "that half the diseases and illnesses which takes hold on us without
      any wisible cause, and which sometimes puzzles the doctors themselves, comes from eating this
      bad meat that I've been talkin' about. Now, tell me—ain't a bit out of a good healthy horse,
      that was killed in a reg'lar way, with the blood flowing, better than a joint off a old cow
      that dropped down dead of the yallows in a field during the night, and wasn't found so till
      the morning?"  
  With these words the knacker took his departure, leaving his hearers disgusted, indignant,
      and astonished at what they had heard.  
  As the clock struck nine, the Resurrection Man and the Cracksman entered the "Boozing Ken."
      They repaired straight into the parlour, and seemed disappointed at not finding there some one
      whom they evidently expected.  
  "He ain't come yet, the young spark," said the Cracksman. "And yet he's had plenty of time
      to go home and get a change o' linen and that like."  
   not so accustomed to remain up all night as we are."  
  "I think his head is rag'lar turned with what he has seen in the great crib yonder. He
      seemed to give sich exceeding wague answers to the questions we put to him as we walked
      through the park this morning. I've heerd say that the conwersation of great people is wery
      gammoning, and that they can't always understand each other: so, if young Holford has been
      listening to their fine talk, it's no wonder he's got crankey."  
  "Humbug!" ejaculated the Resurrection Man, sulkily. "Let's have some egg-flip, and we'll
      wait for him. If he comes he shall give us all the information we want; and if he doesn't, we
      will lay wait for him, carry him off to the crib, and let the Mummy take care of him till he
      chooses to speak."  
  "Yes—that'll be the best plan," said the Cracksman. "But don't you think it's a wery likely
      thing he wants to have the whole business to himself?"  
  "That's just what I   do   think," answered the Resurrection Man, "he'll find himself
      mistaken, though—I rather fancy."  
  "So do I," echoed the Cracksman. "But let's have this egg-flip."  
  With these words he ordered the beverage; and, in due time a quart pot filled with the
      inviting compound, with a foaming head, and exhaling a strong odour of spices, was brought in
      by a paralytic waiter, who had succeeded the slip-shod girl mentioned on a former
      occasion.  
  "Good stuff this," said the Cracksman, smacking his lips. "I wonder whether poor Buffer has
      got anythink half so good this morning."  
  "What's to-day? Oh! Friday," mused the Resurrection Man, as he sipped his quantum of flip
      from a tumbler, with a relish equal to that evinced by his companion: "let's see—what's the
      fare to-day in Clerkenwell Prison?"  
  "Lord! don't you recollect all that?" cried the Cracksman; and taking a piece of chalk from
      his pocket, he wrote the Dietary Table of Clerkenwell New Prison upon the wall:—  
  "That's a nice allowance for a strong healthy fellow!" exclaimed the Resurrection Man
      contemptuously. "One month upon that will make his flesh as soft and flabby as possible. It's
      a shame, by heavens! to kill human beings by inches in that way!"  
  "What a precious fool the Buffer   has   made of himself!" said the Cracksman after a
      pause.  
  "The Buffer!" ejaculated the paralytic waiter, who had been affecting to dust a table as an
      excuse to linger in the room with the chance of obtaining an invitation to partake of the
      flip: "is any thing wrong with the Buffer?"  
  "Safe in lavender," answered the Cracksman, coolly; "and ten to one he'll swing for it."  
  "My eyes! I'm very sorry to hear that," cried the waiter. "He was a capital fellow, and
      never took the change when he gave me a joey  target="#ENG18460_N073" [73]   to pay for
      his three-penn'orth of rum of a morning."  
  "Well, he's done it brown at last, at all events," continued the Cracksman.  
  "What   has   he done?" asked the waiter.  
  "Why—what he isn't likely to have a chance of doing again," answered the Cracksman. "I
      suppose you know that he married Moll Flairer, the sister of him as was killed by Bill Bolter
      at the Old House in Chick Lane, three years or so ago? Well—he had a child by Moll; and a very
      pretty little creetur it was. Even a fellow like me that can't be supposed to have much
      feeling for that kind of thing, used to love to play with that little child. It was a girl;
      and I never did see such sweet blue eyes, and soft flaxy hair. The moment she was born, off
      goes the Buffer and subscribes to half a dozen   burying clubs  . The secretaries and
      treasurers was all exceedin' glad to see him, took his tin, and put down his name. This was
      about two year ago. He kept up all his payments reg'lar; and he was also precious reg'lar in
      keeping up such a system of ill-treatment, that the poor little thing seemed sinking under it.
      Now, as I said before, I'm not the most remarkablest man in London for feeling; but I'm blow'd
      if I couldn't have cried sometimes to see the way in which the Buffer and Moll would use that
      child. I've seen it standing in a pail of cold water, stark naked, in the middle of winter,
      when the ice was floating on the top; and because it cried, its mother would take a rope, half
      an inch thick, and belabour its poor back. Then they half starved it, and made it sleep on the
      bare boards. But the little thing loved its parents for all that; and when the Buffer beat
      Moll, I've seen that poor child creep up to her, and say in such a soft tone, '  Don't cry,
       mother!  ' Perhaps all the reward it got for that was a good weltering. How the child
      stood it all so long, I can't say: the Buffer thought she never would die; so he determined to
      put an end to it at once. And yet he didn't want money, for we had had some good things
      lately, what with one thing and another. All I know is that he first takes the little child
      and flings it down stairs; he then puts it to bed, and sends his wife to the doctor's for some
      medicine, and into the medicine he pours some laudanum. The little creature went to sleep
      smiling at him; and never woke no more. This was two days ago. Yesterday the Buffer goes round
      to all the   burying clubs  , and gives notice of the death of the child. But some how or
      another the thing got wind; one of the secretaries of a club takes a surgeon along with him to
      the Buffer's lodgings, and all's blown."  
  "Well—I never heard of such a rig as that before," exclaimed the waiter.  
  "As for the rig," observed the Cracksman, coolly, "that is common enough. Ever since the
         burial societies   and   funeral clubs   came into existence, nothink has been
      more common than these child-murders. A man in full work can very well afford to pay a few
      halfpence a-week to each club that he subscribes to, even supposing he puts his name down to a
      dozen. Then those that don't kill their children right out, do it by means of exposure,
      neglect, and all kinds of horrible treatment; and so it's easy enough for a man to get forty
      or fifty pounds in this way at one sweep."  
  "So it is—so it is," said the waiter: "  burial clubs   young children. Ah! London's a wonderful place—a wonderful place! Every thing of
      that kind is invented and got up first in London. I really do think that London beats all
      other cities in the world for matters of that sort. Look, for instance, what a blessed thing
      it is that the authorities seldom or never attempt to alter what they call the   low
       neighbourhoods  : why, it's the low neighbourhoods that make such gentlemen as you two,
      and affords you the means of concealment, and existence, and occupation, and every thing else.
      Supposing there was no boozing-kens, and patter-cribs like this, how would such gentlemen as
      you two get on? Ah! London is a fine place—a very fine place; and I hope I shall never live to
      see the day when it will be spoilt by improvement!"  
  "Come, there's a good deal of reason in all that," exclaimed the Resurrection Man. "Here, my
      good fellow," he added, turning to the waiter, "drink this tumbler of egg-hot for your fine
      speech."  
  The waiter did not require to be asked twice, but imbibed the smoking beverage with infinite
      satisfaction to himself.  
  "I never heard any thing more true than what that fellow has just said," observed the
      Resurrection Man to his companion in iniquity. "Only suppose, now, that all Saint Giles's,
      Clerkenwell, Bethnal Green, and the Mint were   improved  , as they call it, where the
      devil would crime take refuge?—for no one knows better than you and me that we should uncommon
      soon have to give up business if we hadn't dark and narrow streets to operate in, cribs like
      this ken to meet and plan in, and the low courts and alleys to conceal ourselves in. Lord!
      what indeed would London be to us if it was all like the West-End?"  
  "And so the fact is that the authorities very kindly leave in existence and undisturbed,
      those very places which give birth to you gentlemen in the first instance," said the waiter,
      "and sustain you afterwards."  
  "Well, you ain't very far wrong, old feller," exclaimed the Cracksman. "But, blow me, if
      this ever struck me before."  
  "Nor me, neither," said the Resurrection Man, "till the flunkey started the subject."  
  "Ah! there's a many things that has struck me since I've been in the waiter-line in flash
      houses of this kind," observed the paralytic attendant, shaking his head solemnly; "but one
      curious fact I've noticed,—which is, that in nine cases out of ten the laws themselves make
      men take to bad ways, and then punish them for acting under their influence."  
  "I don't understand that," said the Cracksman.  
  "I do, though," exclaimed the Resurrection Man; "and I mean to say that the flunkey is quite
      right. We ain't born bad: something then must have made us bad. If I had been in the Duke of
      Wellington's place, I should be an honourable and upright man like him; and if he had been in
      my place, he would be—what I am."  
  "Of course he would," echoed the waiter.  
  "Now I understand," cried the Cracksman.  
  "I tell you what we'll do," said the Resurrection Man, after a few moments' reflection;
      "this devil of a Holford doesn't appear to hurry himself, and the rain has just begun to fall
      in torrents;—so we'll have another quart of flip, and the flunkey shall sit down with us and
      enjoy it; and I will just tell you the history of my own life, by way of passing away the
      time. Perhaps you may find," added the Resurrection Man, "that it helps to bear out the
      flunkey's remark,   that in nine cases out of ten the laws themselves make us take to bad
       ways, and then punish us for acting under their influence  ."  
  The second supply of flip was procured; the door of the parlour was shut; room was made for
      the paralytic waiter near the fire; and the Resurrection Man commenced his narrative in the
      following manner.  
  
  CHAPTER LXII. THE RESURRECTION MAN'S HISTORY.  
  "I was born thirty-eight years ago, near the village of Walmer, in Kent. My father and
      mother occupied a small cottage—or rather hovel, made of the wreck of a ship, upon the
      sea-coast. Their ostensible employment was that of fishing: but it would appear that smuggling
      and body-snatching also formed a portion of my father's avocations. The rich inhabitants of
      Walmer and Deal encouraged him in his contraband pursuits, by purchasing French silks, gloves,
      and scents of him: the gentlemen, moreover, were excellent customers for French brandy, and
      the ladies for dresses and perfumes. The clergyman of Walmer and his wife were our best
      patrons in this way; and in consequence of the frequent visits they paid our cottage, they
      took a sort of liking to me. The parson made me attend the national school regularly every
      Sunday; and when I was nine years old he took me into his service to clean the boots and
      knives, brush the clothes, and so forth. I was then very fond of reading, and used to pass all
      my leisure time in studying books which he allowed me to take out of his library. This lasted
      till I was twelve years old, when my father was one morning arrested on a charge of smuggling,
      and taken to Dover Castle. The whole neighbourhood expressed their surprise that a man who
      appeared to be so respectable, should turn out such a villain. The gentlemen who used to buy
      brandy of him talked loudly of the necessity of making an example of him: the ladies, who were
      accustomed to purchase gloves, silks, and   eau-de-cologne  , wondered that such a
      desperate ruffian should have allowed them to sleep safe in their beds; and of course the
      clergyman and his wife kicked me ignominiously out of doors. As all things of this nature
      create a sensation in a small community, the parson preached a sermon upon the subject on the
      following Sunday, choosing for his text '  Render unto Cæsar the things that are Cæsar's,
       and unto God the things that are God's  ,' and earnestly enjoining all his congregation to
      unite in deprecating the conduct of a man who had brought disgrace upon a neighbourhood till
      then famed for its loyalty, its morality, and its devotion to the laws of the country.  
   of society. Just at that period a baronet in the neighbourhood was proved to be
      the owner of a smuggling vessel, and to be pretty deep in the contraband business himself. He
      was compelled to run away: an Exchequer process, I think they call it, issued against his
      property; and every thing he possessed was swept away. It appeared that he had been smuggling
      for years, and had defrauded the revenue to an immense amount. He was a widower: but he had
      three children—two boys and a girl, at school in the neighbourhood. Oh! then what sympathy was
      created for these '  poor dear bereaved little ones  ,' as the parson called them in a
      charity sermon which he preached for their benefit. And there they were, marshalled into the
      parson's own pew, by the beadle; and the parson's wife wept over them. Subscriptions were got
      up for them;—the mayor of Deal took one boy, the banker another, and the clergyman's wife took
      charge of the girl; and never was seen so much weeping, and consoling, and compassion
      before!  
  "Well, at that time my mother had got so thin, and weak, and ill, through want and
      affliction, that her neighbours gave her the name of the   Mummy  , which she has kept
      ever since. My father came home, and was shunned by every body. The baronet's uncle happened
      to die at that period, and left his nephew an immense fortune:—the baronet paid all the fines,
      settled the Exchequer matters, and returned to Walmer. A triumphal reception awaited him:
      balls, parties, concerts, and routs took place in honour of the event;—and the mayor, the
      banker and the clergyman and his wife were held up as the patterns of philanthropy and
      humanity. Of course the baronet rewarded them liberally for having taken care of his children
      in the hour of need.  
  "This business again set me a-thinking; and I began to comprehend that birth and station
      made an immense difference in the views that the world adopted of men's actions. My father,
      who had only higgled and fiddled with smuggling affairs upon a miserably small scale, was set
      down as the most atrocious monster unhung, because he was one of the common herd; but the
      baronet, who had carried on a systematic contraband trade to an immense amount, was looked
      upon as a martyr to tyrannical laws, because he was one of the upper classes and possessed a
      title. So my disposition was soured by these proofs of human injustice, at my very entrance
      upon life.  
  "Up to this period, in spite of the contemplation of the lawless trade carried on by my
      father, I had been a regular attendant at church and at the Sunday-school; and I declare most
      solemnly that I never went to sleep at night, nor commenced my morning's avocations, without
      saying my prayers. But when my father got into trouble, the beadle kicked me out of church,
      and the parson drove me out of the school; and so I began to think that if my religion was
      only serviceable and available as long as my father remained unharmed by the law, it could not
      be worth much. From that moment I never said another prayer, and never opened a bible or
      prayer-book. Still I was inclined to labour to obtain an honest livelihood; and I implored my
      father, upon my knees, not to force me to assist in his proceedings of smuggling and
      body-snatching, to both which he was compelled by dire necessity to return the moment he was
      released from gaol. He told me I was a fool to think of living honestly, as the world would
      not let me; but he added that I might make the trial.  
  "Pleased with this permission, and sincerely hoping that I might obtain some occupation,
      however menial, which would enable me to eat the bread of honest toil, I went round to all the
      farmers in the neighbourhood, and offered to enter their service as a plough-boy or a
      stable-boy. The moment they found out who I was, they one and all turned me away from their
      doors. One said, '  Like father, like son  ;'—another asked if I was mad, to think that I
      could thus thrust myself into an honest family;—a third laughed in my face;—a fourth
      threatened to have me taken up for wanting to get into his house to commit a felony;—a fifth
      swore that there was gallows written upon my countenance;—a sixth ordered his men to loosen
      the bulldog at me;—and a seventh would have had me ducked in his horse-pond, if I had not run
      away.  
  "Dispirited, but not altogether despairing, I returned home. On the following day, I walked
      into Deal, (which almost joins Walmer) and called at several tradesmen's shops to inquire if
      they wanted an errand-boy. My reception by these individuals was worse than that which I had
      met with at the hands of the farmers. One asked me if I thought he would run the risk of
      having his house indicted as the receptacle for thieves and vagabonds;—a second pointed to his
      children, and said, '  Do you suppose I want to bring them up in the road to the
       gallows?  '—a third locked up his till in affright, and threatened to call a
      constable;—and a fourth lashed me severely with a horse-whip.  
  "Still I was not totally disheartened. I determined to call upon some of those ladies and
      gentlemen who had been my father's best customers for his contraband articles. One lady upon
      hearing my business, seized hold of the poker with one hand and her salts-bottle with the
      other;—a second was also nearly fainting, and rang the bell for her maid to bring her some
         eau-de-cologne  —the very   eau-de-cologne   which my father had smuggled for
      her;—a third begged me with tears in her eyes to retire, or my very suspicions appearance
      would frighten her lap-dog into fits;—and a fourth (an old lady, who was my father's best
      customer for French brandy), held up her hands to heaven, and implored the Lord to protect her
      from all sabbath-breakers, profane swearers, and drunkards.  
  "Finding that I had nothing to expect from the ladies, I tried the gentlemen who had been
      accustomed to patronise my father previous to his   misfortune  . The first swore at me
      like a trooper, and assured me that he had always prophesied I should go wrong:—the second
      spoke civilly, and regretted that his excellent advice had been all thrown away upon my
      father, whom he had vainly endeavered to avert from his wicked courses (it was for smuggling
      things for this gentleman that my father had been arrested);—and the third made no direct
      answer, but shook his head solemnly, and wondered what the world was coming to.  
  "I was now really reduced to despair. I, however, resolved to try some of the very poorest
      tradesmen in the town. By these miserable creatures I was received with compassionate
      interest; and my case was fully comprehended by them. Some even gave me a few halfpence; and
      one made me sit down and dine with him, his wife, and his children. They, however, one and all
      declared   that they could not take me into their service, for, if they did, they would be
       sure to offend all their customers    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "A sudden thought now struck me. I resolved to call next day upon the very baronet who had
      himself suffered so much in consequence of the customs-laws. Exhilarated by the new hope
      awakened within me, I repaired on the following morning to the splendid mansion which he now
      inhabited. I was shown into a magnificent room, where he received me, lounging before a
      cheerful fire. He listened very patiently to my tale, and then spoke, as nearly as I can
      recollect, as follows:—'My good lad, I have not the slightest doubt that you are anxious to
      eat the bread of honesty, as you very properly express it. But that bread is not within the
      reach of every body; and if we were all to pick and choose in this world, my God! what would
      become of us? My dear young man, I occupy a prominent position amidst the gentry of these
      parts, and I have also a duty to fulfil towards society. Society has condemned you—unheard, I
      grant you: nevertheless, society   has   condemned you. Under these circumstances I have
      no alternative, but to decline taking you into my service; and I must moreover request you to
      remember that if you are ever found loitering upon my grounds, I shall have you put in the
      stocks. I regret that my duty to society compels me thus to act.'  
  "You may conceive with what feelings I heard this long tirade. I was literally confounded,
      and retired without venturing upon a remonstrance. I knew not what course to adopt. To return
      home and inform my parents that I could obtain no work, was to lay myself under the necessity
      of becoming a smuggler and a body-snatcher at once. As a desperate resource I thought of
      calling upon the clergyman, and explaining all my sentiments to him. I hoped to be able to
      convince him that although my father was bad, or supposed to be bad, yet I abhorred vice in
      all its shapes, and was anxious only to pursue honest courses. As a Christian minister, he
      could not, I imagined, be so uncharitable as to infer my guilt in consequence of that of my
      parent; and, accordingly, to him did I repair. He had just returned to his own house from a
      funeral, and was in a hurry to be off on a shooting excursion, for he had on his sporting-garb
      beneath his surplice. He listened to me with great impatience, and asked if my father still
      pursued his contraband trade. Seeing that I hesitated how to reply, he exclaimed, turning his
      eyes up to heaven, '  Speak the truth, young man, and shame the devil!   speak to my wife; she will act in the matter as she chooses.' Rejoiced at this
      hopeful turn in the proceeding, I sought his lady, as I was desired. She heard all that I had
      to say, and then observed, 'Not for worlds could I receive you into my house again; but if
      your father has any silks and gloves, very cheap and very good, I do not mind purchasing them.
      And remember,' she added, as I was about to depart, 'I do not want these things; I only offer
      to take them for the purpose of doing you a service. My motive is purely a Christian one.'  
  "I returned home. 'Well,' said my father, 'what luck this morning?'—'None,' I replied.—'And
      what do you mean to do, lad?'—'To become a smuggler, a body-snatcher, or any thing else that
      you choose,' was my reply; 'and the sooner we begin, the better, for I am sick and tired of
      being good.'  
  "So I became a smuggler and a resurrection man.  
  "You have heard, perhaps, that Deal is famous for its boatmen and pilots. It is also
      renowned for the beauty of the sailors' daughters. One of those lovely creatures captivated my
      heart—for I can even talk sentimentally when I think of those times; and she seemed to like me
      in return. Her name was Katharine Price—Kate Price, as she was called by her acquaintance; and
      a prettier creature the sun never shone upon. She was good and virtuous, too—and she alone
      understood my real disposition, which, even now that I had embarked in lawless pursuits, still
      panted to be good and virtuous also. At this time I was nineteen, and she was one year
      younger. We loved in secret—and we met in secret; for her parents would not for one moment
      have listened to the idea of our union. My hope was to obtain a good sum of money by one
      desperate venture in the contraband line, and run away with Kate to some distant part of the
      country, where we could enter upon some way of business that would produce us an honest
      livelihood. This hope sustained us!  
  "At this time there were a great many sick sailors in Deal Hospital, and numerous funerals
      took place in the burial-ground of that establishment. My father and I determined to have up a
      few of the corpses, for we always knew where to dispose of as many   subjects   as we
      could obtain. By these means I proposed to raise enough money to purchase in France the
      articles that I meant to smuggle into England and thereby obtain the necessary funds for
      carrying out the plans upon which Kate and myself were resolved.  
  "Good luck attended upon my father and myself in respect to the body-snatching business. We
      raised thirty pounds; and with that we set sail for France in the boat which we always hired
      for our smuggling expeditions. We landed at Calais, and made our purchases. We bought an
      immense quantity of brandy at tenpence a quart; gloves at eightpence a pair; three watches at
      two pound ten each; and some   eau-de-cologne  , proportionately cheap. Our thirty pounds
      we calculated would produce us a hundred and twenty. We put out to sea again at about ten
      o'clock at night. The wind was blowing stiff from the nor'-east; and by the time we had been
      an hour at sea it increased to a perfect hurricane. Never shall I forget that awful night. The
      entire ocean was white with foam; but the sky above was as black as pitch. We weathered the
      tempest until we reached the shore about a mile to the south'ard of Walmer, at a place called
      Kingsdown. We touched the beach—I thought every thing was safe. A huge billow broke over the
      stem of the lugger; and in a moment the boat was a complete wreck. My father leapt on shore
      from the bow at the instant this catastrophe took place: I was swallowed up along with the
      ill-fated bark. I was, however, an excellent swimmer; and I combated, and fought, and
      struggled with the ocean, as a man would wrestle with a savage animal that held him in his
      grasp. I succeeded in gaining the beach; but so weak and enfeebled was I that my father was
      compelled to carry me to our hovel, close by.  
  "I was put to bed: a violent fever seized upon me—I became delirious—and for six weeks I lay
      tossing upon a bed of sickness.  
  "At length I got well. But what hope remained for me? We were totally ruined—so was the poor
      fisherman whose boat was wrecked upon that eventful night. I wrote a note to Kate to tell her
      all that had happened, and to make an appointment for the following Sunday evening, that we
      might meet and talk over the altered aspect of affairs. Scarcely had I despatched this letter
      to the care of Kate's sister-in-law, who was in our secret, and managed our little
      correspondence, when my father came in and asked me if I felt myself well enough to accompany
      him on a little expedition that evening. I replied in the affirmative. He then told me that a
      certain surgeon for whom we did business, and who resided in Deal, required a particular
      subject which had been buried that morning in Walmer Churchyard. I did not ask my father any
      more questions; but that night I accompanied him to the burial-ground between eleven and
      twelve o'clock. The surgeon had shown my father the grave in the afternoon; and we had a cart
      waiting in a lane close by. The church is in a secluded part, surrounded by trees, and at some
      little distance from any habitations. There was no danger of being meddled with:—moreover, we
      had often operated in the same ground before.  
   body of her whom a thousand times I had pressed to my sorrowful breast—whom I
      had clasped to my aching heart. I felt as if I had committed some horrible crime—a murder, or
      other deadly deed!  
  "The surgeon and my father did not notice my emotions, but settled their accounts. The
      medical man then offered us each a glass of brandy. I drank mine with avidity, and then
      accompanied my father from the spot—uncertain whether to rush back and claim the body, or not.
      But I did not do so.  
  "For some days I wandered about scarcely knowing what I did—and certainly not caring what
      became of me. One morning I was roving amidst the fields, when I heard a loud voice exclaim,
      'I say, you fellow there, open the gate, will you?' I turned round, and recognised the baronet
      on horseback. He had a large hunting whip in his hand.—'Open the gate!' said I; 'and whom
      for?' 'Whom for!' repeated the baronet; 'why, for me, to be sure, fellow.'—'Then open it
      yourself,' said I. The baronet was near enough to me to reach me with his whip; and he dealt
      me a stinging blow across the face. Maddened with pain, and soured with vexation, I leapt over
      the gate and attacked the baronet with a stout ash stick which I carried in my hand. I dragged
      him from his horse, and thrashed him without mercy. When I was tired, I walked quietly away,
      he roaring after me that he would be revenged upon me as sure as I was born.  
  "Next day I was arrested and taken before a magistrate. The baronet appeared against me,
      and—to my surprise—swore that I had assaulted him with a view to rob him, and that he had the
      greatest difficulty in protecting his purse and watch. I told my story and showed the mark of
      the baronet's whip across my face. The justice asked me if I could bring forward my witnesses
      to character. The baronet exclaimed, 'How can he? he has been in Dover Castle for
      smuggling.'—'Never!' I cried emphatically.—'Well, your father has, then,' said the baronet.
      This I could not deny.—'Oh! that's just the same thing!' cried the magistrate; and I was
      committed to gaol for trial at the next Maidstone assizes.  
  "For three months I lay in prison. I was not, however, completely hardened yet; nor did I
      associate with those who drank, and sang, and swore. I detested vice in all its shapes; and I
      longed for an opportunity to be good. It may seem strange to you, who know me   now  , to
      hear me speak thus;—but you are not aware what I was   then  !  
  "I was tried, and found guilty. The next two years of my life I passed at the hulks at
      Woolwich, dressed in dark grey, and wearing a chain round my leg. Even there I did not grow so
      corrupted, but that I sought for work the moment I was set at liberty again. I resolved not to
      return home to my parents, for I detested the ways into which they had led me. Turned away
      from the hulks one fine morning at ten o'clock, without a farthing in my pocket nor the means
      of obtaining a morsel of bread, my prospects were miserable enough. I could not obtain any
      employment in Woolwich: evening was coming on—and I was hungry. Suddenly I thought of
      enlisting. Pleased with this idea, I went to the barracks, and offered myself as a recruit.
      The regiment stationed there was about to embark for the East Indies in a few days and wanted
      men. Although certain of being banished, as it were, to a most unhealthy climate for
      twenty-one years, I preferred that to the life of a vagabond or a criminal in England. The
      sergeant was delighted with me, because I could read and write well; but the surgeon would not
      pass me. He said to me, 'You have either been half-starved for a length of time, or you have
      undergone a long imprisonment, for your flesh is as flabby as possible.' Thus was this hope
      destroyed.  
  "Now what pains had the law taken to make me good—even supposing, that I was really bad at
      the time of my condemnation? The law locked me up for two years, half-starved me, and yet
      exacted from me as much labour as a strong, healthy, man could have performed: then the law
      turned me out into the wide world, so weak, reduced, and feeble, that even the last resource
      of the most wretched—namely, enlisting in a regiment bound for India—was closed against
      me!  
  "Well—that night I wandered into the country and slept under a hedge. On the following
      morning I was compelled to satisfy the ravenous cravings of my hunger with Swedish turnips
      plucked from the fields. This food lay so cold upon my stomach that I felt ready to drop with
      illness, misery, and fatigue. And yet, in this Christian land, even that morsel, against which
      my heart literally heaved, was begrudged me. I was not permitted to satisfy my hunger with the
      food of beasts. A constable came up and took me into custody for robbing the turnip field. I
      was conducted before a neighbouring justice of the peace. He asked me what I meant by stealing
      the turnips? I told him that I had fasted for twenty-four hours, and was hungry. 'Nonsense,
      hungry!' he exclaimed; 'I'd give five pounds to know what hunger is! you kind of fellows eat
      turnips by way of luxury, you do—and not because you're hungry.' I assured him that I spoke
      the truth.—'Well, why don't you go to work?' he demanded.—'So I will, sir, with pleasure, if
      you will give me employment,' I replied.—'Me give you employment,' he shouted; 'I wouldn't
      have such a fellow about me, if he'd work for nothing. Where did you sleep last night?'—'Under
      a hedge, sir,' was my answer.—'Ah! I thought so,' he exclaimed: 'a rogue and vagabond
      evidently.' And this excellent specimen of the 'Great unpaid' committed me forthwith to the
      treadmill for one month   as a rogue and vagabond  .  
  "The treadmill is a horrible punishment: it is too bad even for those that are really rogues
      and vagabonds. The weak and the strong take the same turn, without any distinction; and I have
      seen men fall down fainting upon the platform, with the risk of having their legs or arms
      smashed by the wheel, through sheer exhaustion. Then the miserable fare that one receives in
      prison renders him more fit for an hospital than for the violent labour of the treadmill.  
  "I had been two years at the hulks, and was not hardened: I had been a smuggler and a
      body-snatcher, and was not hardened:—but this one month's imprisonment and spell at the
      treadmill   did   harden me—and hardened me completely! I could not see any advantage in
      being good. I could not find out any inducement to be honest. As for a desire to lead an
      honourable life, that was absurd. I now laughed the idea to scorn; and I swore within myself
      that whenever I   did   most unheard-of atrocities. In fact the rich are prepared to believe any infamy
      which is imputed to the poor.' It was thus that I reasoned; and I looked forward to the day of
      my release with a burning—maddening—drunken joy!  
  "That day came. I was turned adrift, as before, without a shilling and without a crust. That
      alone was as bad as branding the words   rogue and vagabond   upon my forehead. How could
      I remain honest, even if I had any longer been inclined to do so, when I could not get work
      and had no money—no bread—no lodging? The legislature does not think of all this. It fancies
      that all its duty consists in punishing men for crimes, and never dreams of adopting measures
      to prevent them from committing crimes at all. But I now no more thought of honesty: I went
      out of prison a confirmed ruffian. I had no money—no conscience—no fear—no hope—no love—no
      friendship—no sympathy—no kindly feeling of any sort. My soul had turned to the blackness of
      hell!  
  "The very first thing I did was to cut myself a good tough ash stick with a heavy knob at
      one end. The next thing I did was to break into the house of the very justice who had
      sentenced me to the treadmill for eating a raw turnip; and I feasted jovially upon the cold
      fowl and ham which I found in his larder. I also drank success to my new career in a bumper of
      his fine old wine. This compliment was due to him: he had made me what I was!  
  "I carried off a small quantity of plate—all that I could find, you may be sure—and took my
      departure from the house of the justice. As I was hurrying away from this scene of my first
      exploit, I passed by a fine large barn, also belonging to my friend the magistrate. I did not
      hesitate a moment what to do. I owed him a recompense for my month at the treadmill; and I
      thought I might as well add   Incendiary   to my other titles of   Rogue   and
         Vagabond  . Besides, I longed for mischief—the world had persecuted me quite long
      enough, the hour of retaliation had arrived. I fired the barn and scampered away as hard as I
      could. I halted at a distance of about half a mile, and turned to look. A bright column of
      flame was shooting up to heaven! Oh! how happy did I feel at that moment. Happy! this is not
      the word! I was mad—intoxicated—delirious with joy. I literally danced as I saw the barn
      burning. I was avenged on the man who would not allow me to eat a cold turnip to save me from
      starving:—that one cold turnip cost him dear! The fire spread, and communicated with his
      dwelling-house; and there was no adequate supply of water. The barn—the stacks—the
      out-houses—the mansion were all destroyed. But that was not all. The only daughter of the
      justice—a lovely girl of nineteen—was burnt to death. I read the entire account in the
      newspapers a few days afterwards!  
  "And the upper classes wonder that there are so many incendiary fires: my only surprise is,
      that there are so few! Ah! the Lucifer-match is a fearful weapon in the hands of the man whom
      the laws, the aristocracy, and the present state of society have ground down to the very dust.
      I felt all my power—I knew all my strength—I was aware of all my importance as a man, when I
      read of the awful extent of misery and desolation which I had thus caused. Oh! I was signally
      avenged!  
  "I now bethought me of punishing the baronet in the same manner. He had been the means of
      sending me for two years to the hulks at Woolwich. Pleased with this idea, I jogged merrily on
      towards Walmer. It was late at night when I reached home. I found my mother watching by my
      father's death-bed, and arrived just in time to behold him breathe his last. My mother spoke
      to me about a decent interment for him. I laughed in her face. Had he ever allowed any one to
      sleep quietly in his grave? No. How could   he   then hope for repose in the tomb? My
      mother remonstrated: I threatened to dash out her brains with my stout ash stick; and on the
      following night I sold my father's body to the surgeon who had anatomised poor Kate Price!
      This was another vengeance on my part.  
  "Not many hours elapsed before I set fire to the largest barn upon the baronet's estate. I
      waited in the neighbourhood and glutted myself with a view of the conflagration. The damage
      was immense. The next day I composed a song upon the subject, which I have never since
      forgotten. You may laugh at the idea of me becoming a poet; but you know well enough that I
      received some trifle of education—that I was not a fool by nature—and that in early life I was
      food of reading. The lines were these:—  
  
    "THE INCENDIARY'S SONG.  
  
  "The Lucifer-match! the Lucifer-match!  
  'Tis the weapon for us to wield.  
  How bonnily burns up rick and thatch,  
  And the crop just housed from the field!  
  The proud may oppress and the rich distress,  
  And drive us from their door;—  
  But they cannot snatch the Lucifer-match  
  From the hand of the desperate poor!  
  "The purse-proud squire and the tyrant peer  
  May keep their Game Laws still;  
  And the very glance of the overseer  
  May continue to freeze and kill.  
  The wealthy and great, and the chiefs of the state,  
  May tyrannise more and more;—  
  But they cannot snatch the Lucifer-match  
  From the hand of the desperate poor!  
  "'  Oh! give us bread!  ' is the piteous wail  
  That is murmured far and wide;  
  And echo takes up and repeats the tale—  
  But the rich man turns aside.  
  The Justice of Peace may send his Police  
  To scour the country o'er;  
  But they cannot snatch the Lucifer-match  
  From the hand of the desperate poor!  
  "Then, hurrah! hurrah! for the Lucifer-match;  
  'Tis the weapon of despair:—  
  How bonnily blaze up barn and thatch—  
  The poor man's revenge is there!  
  For the   worm   will turn on the feet that spurn—  
  And surely a   man   is more?—  
  Oh! none can e'er snatch the Lucifer-match  
  From the hand of the desperate poor!  
  
  "The baronet suspected that I was the cause of the fire, as I had just returned to the
      neighbourhood; and he had me arrested and taken before a justice; but there was not a shadow
      of proof against me, nor a pretence to keep me in custody. I was accordingly discharged, with
      an admonition '  to take care of myself  '—which was as much as to say, '  If I can
       find an opportunity of sending you to prison, I will  .'  
  "Walmer and its neighbourhood grew loathsome to me. The image of Kate Price constantly
      haunted me; and I was moreover shunned by every one who knew that I had been at the hulks. I
      accordingly sold off all the fishing tackle, and other traps, and came up to London with the
      old Mummy.  
  "I need say no more."  
  "And there's enough in your history to set a man a-thinking," exclaimed the waiter of the
      boozing-ken; "there is indeed."  
    
  The clock struck mid-day when Holford entered the parlour of the boozing-ken.  
  
  CHAPTER LXIII. THE PLOT.  
  "Well, young blade," cried the Cracksman, "you haven't kept us waiting at all, I
      suppose?"  
  "And do you fancy that I could wake myself up again in a minute when I had once laid down?"
      demanded the lad, sulkily.  
  "Oh! bother to the laying down, Harry," said the Cracksman. "Don't you think me and Tony
      wants sleep as well as a strong hearty young feller like you? and we haven't put buff in
       downy  target="#ENG18460_N074" [74]   since the night afore last."  
  "Well, never mind chaffing about   that  ," cried the Resurrection Man impatiently:
      then, having dismissed the waiter, he continued, "Now, about this business at the palace? We
      must have no delay; and when we make appointments in future, they must be better kept. But I
      won't speak of this one now, because there's some allowance to be made for you, as you were up
      the best part of the night, and you ain't accustomed to it as we are. But to the point. How is
      this affair to be managed?"  
  "I don't see how it is to be managed at all," answered Holford, firmly.  
  "The devil you don't," cried the Cracksman.  
  "Then what was you doing all that time in the palace?"  
  "Running a thousand risks of being found out every minute——"  
  "So we all do at times."  
  "And sneaking about at night-time to find food."  
  "I think you managed to discover the right place for the grist," said the Resurrection Man,
      his cadaverous countenance wearing an ironical smile; "for you must recollect that I found you
      in the pantry."  
  "And the pantry's a good neighbourhood: it can't be far from where the plate's kept,"
      observed the Cracksman.  
  "The plate is kept where no one can get at it," said Holford.  
  "How do you know that, youngster?"  
  "I overheard the servants count it, lock it up in a chest, and take it up to the apartments
      of—of—the Lord Steward, I think they call him."  
  "The deuce!" ejaculated the Cracksman, in a tone of deep disappointment.  
  "Now I tell you what it is, young fellow," said the Resurrection Man; "I think that for some
      reason or another you're deceiving us."  
  "You think so?" cried the lad. "And why should you fancy that I am deceiving you?"  
  "Because your manners tell me so."  
  "In that case," said Holford, rising from his seat, "it is not of any use for us to talk
      more upon the subject."  
  "By G—d, it is of use, though!" exclaimed the Cracksman. "You shall tell us the truth by
      fair means or foul;" and he produced from his pocket a clasp-knife, the murderous blade of
      which flew open by means of a spring which was pressed at the back.  
  Holford turned pale, and resumed his seat.  
  "Now, you see that it is no use to humbug us," said the Resurrection Man. "Tell us the whole
      truth, and you will of course get your reg'lars out of the swag. You told me that the Queen
      was going to Windsor in a day or two; and that was as much as to say that the affair would
      come off then."  
  "I told you the Queen was going to Windsor—and I tell you so again," replied Holford. "But I
      can't help it if they lock up the plate: and I don't know what else there is for you to carry
      off."  
  The Resurrection Man and the Cracksman exchanged glances of mingled rage and disappointment.
      They did not precisely believe what the lad told them, and yet they could not see any motive
      which he was likely to have for misleading them—unless it were to retain all the profits of
      his discoveries in the palace for his own sole behoof.  
  "Now, Holford, my good fellow," said the Cracksman, shutting up his clasp-knife, and
      returning it to his pocket, "if you fancy that you are able to go through this business alone,
      and without any help, you're deucedly mistaken."  
  "I imagine no such thing," returned Holford; "and to prove to you that I am convinced there
      is nothing to be got by the affair, in any shape or way, do you and Tidkins attempt it alone
      together. He found his way to the pantry as well as I did, and can tell you what he saw
      there."  
  "That's true," said the Resurrection Man, apparently struck by this observation. "So I
      suppose we must give the thing up as a bad job?"  
  "I suppose we must," added the Cracksman, grinding his teeth. "But, by G—d, if I thought
      this younker was humbugging us, I'd plant three inches of cold steel in him, come what
      would."  
  "Thank you for your kindness," said Holford, not without a shudder. "Another time, get some
      person to act for you whose word you will believe. And now," he continued, turning to the
      Resurrection Man, "please to recollect the terms we agreed upon—a third of all we could get if
      successful, or five pounds for me in case of failure."  
  "Well, I shall keep my word," returned the Resurrection Man.  
  "Blow me if I would, though," exclaimed the Cracksman, fiercely.  
  "Yes—fair play's a jewel," said the Resurrection Man, darting a significant glance at his
      companion; then, feeling in his pocket, he added, "Holford is entitled to his five pounds, and
      he shall have them; but, curse me! if I have enough in my pocket to pay him. I tell you what
      it is, my lad," he continued, turning towards the young man, "you must meet me somewhere this
      evening, and I'll give you the money."  
  "That will do," cried Holford. "Where shall I meet you?"  
  "Where?" repeated the Resurrection Man, affecting to muse upon the question: "Oh! I will
      tell you. You know the   Dark-House   in Brick Lane, Spitalfields?"  
  "I have heard of it, but was never there."  
  "Well—meet me there to-night at nine o'clock, Harry," said the Resurrection Man, in as kind
      a tone as he could assume, "and I'll tip you the five couters."  
   and make myself generally useful in a gentleman's house. So I am afraid that I
      am not likely to get the situation."  
  "I hope you may, my lad, for your sake," cried the Resurrection Man. "At all events the five
      quids will keep you from starving for the next two months to come; so mind and be punctual
      this evening at nine."  
  "I shall not fail," answered Holford; and with these words he departed.  
  "Well, blow me, if I can make out now what you're up to," exclaimed the Cracksman, as soon
      as he and his companion in infamy were alone together.  
  "You never thought that I should be fool enough to give him five coolers for doing nothing
      but humbug us?" said the Resurrection Man. "No—no: catch a weasel asleep—but not Tony Tidkins!
      Don't you see that he has been making fools of us? I remember what a devil of a hurry he was
      in to get me away from the palace, when I lighted upon him in the pantry, and, altogether, I
      am convinced he has been doing his best to stall us off from the business."  
  "So I think," said the Cracksman.  
  "Well," resumed the Resurrection Man, "we'll just try what a few days of the pit under the
      staircase in my crib will do for him. I have mended up the hole that opens into the saw-pit
      next door; and there is no chance of his escaping. We must make him drink a glass at the
         Dark House  , and drug the grog well, and we needn't fear about being able to get him
      up into my street."  
  "Ah! now I understand you," observed the Cracksman: "only see what it is to have a head like
      your'n. The pit will soon make him tell us the real truth."  
  "And if not—if he remains obstinate—" mused the Resurrection Man, aloud;—"why—in that
      case—"  
  "We shall know what to do with him," added the Cracksman.  
  And the two miscreants exchanged glances of horrible significancy.  
  
  CHAPTER LXIV. THE COUNTERPLOT.  
  ON the same day that the above conversation took place in the parlour of the boozing-ken on
      Saffron Hill, Markham was seated in his library, with several books before him. His
      countenance was pale, and bore the traces of recent illness; and an air of profound melancholy
      reigned upon his handsome features. He endeavoured to fix his attention on the volume beneath
      his eyes; but his thoughts were evidently far away from the subject of his studies. At length,
      as if to compose his mind, he turned abruptly towards his writing-desk, and took thence a note
      which he had already perused a thousand times, and every word of which was indelibly stamped
      upon his memory.  
  We can suppose a traveller upon Saara's burning desert,—sinking beneath fatigue, and
      oppressed by a thirst, the agony of which becomes maddening. Presently he reaches a well: it
      is deep and difficult of access;—nevertheless, the traveller's life or death reposes at the
      bottom of that well. In like manner did Markham's only hope lay in that letter.  
  No wonder, then, that he read it so often; no marvel that he referred to it when his mind
      was afflicted, and when the wing of his spirit was oppressed by the dense atmosphere of
      despair.  
  And yet the contents of that letter were simple and laconic enough:  
  
  "  Richmond.    
  "The Countess Alteroni presents her compliments to Mr. Markham, and begs to acknowledge Mr.
       Markham's letter of yesterday's date.  
  "The countess expresses her most sincere thinks for a communication which prevented an
       arrangement that, under the circumstances disclosed, would have proved a serious family
       calamity."  
  
  "Yes—Isabella is saved!" said Markham to himself, as his eyes wandered over the contents of
      that most welcome note, which he had received some days previously: "it is impossible to
      mistake the meaning of that last sentence. She is saved—and I have been the instrument of her
      salvation! I have rescued her from an union with a profligate, an adventurer, a man of
      infamous heart! Surely—surely her parents will admit that I have paid back a portion of the
      debt of gratitude which their kindness imposed upon me! Yes—the countess herself seems to hold
      out a hope of reconciliation;—that note bids me hope! It is more than coldly polite—it is
      confidential:—it gives me to understand the results of my own letter denouncing the miscreant
      George Montague Greenwood."  
  Richard's countenance brightened as he reasoned thus within himself. But in a few moments, a
      dark cloud again displaced that gleam of happiness.  
  "Enthusiastic visionary that I am!" he murmured to himself. "I construe common politeness
      into a ground of hope: I fancy that every bird I see—however ill-omened—is a dove of promise,
      with an olive-branch in its mouth! Alas! mine is a luckless fate—and God alone can tell what
      strange destinies yet await me."  
  He rose from his chair, and walked to the window. The rain, which had poured down in
      torrents all the morning, had ceased; and the afternoon was fine and unusually warm for the
      early part of January. He glanced towards the hill, whereon the two trees stood, and thought
      of his brother—that much-loved brother, of whose fate he was kept so cruelly ignorant!  
  While he was standing at the window, buried in profound thought, and with his eyes fixed
      upon the hill, he heard a light step near him; and in a moment Ellen Monroe was by his
      side.  
  "Do I intrude, Richard?" she exclaimed. "I knocked twice at the door; and not receiving any
      reply, imagined that there was no one here. I came to change a book. But you—you are
      thoughtful and depressed."  
  "I was meditating upon a topic which to me is always fraught with distressing ideas,"
      answered Markham: "I was thinking of my brother!"  
  "Your brother!" ejaculated Ellen; and her countenance became ashy pale.  
  "Yes," continued Richard, not observing her emotion; "I would rather know the worst—if
      misfortunes have really overtaken him—than remain in this painful state of suspense. If he be
      prosperous, why should he stay away? if poor, why does he not seek consolation with me?"  
  "Perhaps," said Ellen, hesitatingly, "perhaps he is—in reality—much better off than—than—any
      one who feels interested in him."  
    
  "Against me!" cried the young lady, with a start, while at the same time a deep blush
      suffused her cheeks.  
  "Yes, against you," continued Richard, now glancing towards her. "You may think that I am
      joking—but I never was more serious in my life. For the few days that you have been in this
      house, you have been subject to intervals of profound depression."  
  "I!" repeated Ellen, the hue of her blushes becoming more intensely crimson, as her glances
      sank confusedly beneath those of Markham.  
  "Alas! Ellen," answered Richard, "I have myself been too deeply initiated in the mysteries
      of adversity and sorrow,—I have drunk too deeply of the cup of affliction,—I have experienced
      too much bitter, bitter anguish, not to be able to detect the presence of unhappiness in
      others. And by many signs, Ellen, have I discovered that you are unhappy. I speak to you as a
      friend—I do not wish to penetrate into your secrets;—but if there be any thing in which I can
      aid you—if there be aught wherein my poor services or my counsels may be rendered
      available,—speak, command me!"  
  "Oh! Richard," cried Ellen, tears starting into her eyes, "how kind—how generous of you thus
      to think of me—you who have already done so much for my father and myself!"  
  "Were you not the companion of my childhood, Ellen? and should I not be to you as a brother,
      and you to me as a sister? Let me be your brother, then—and tell me how I can alleviate the
      weight of that unhappiness which is crushing your young heart!"  
  "A brother!" exclaimed Ellen, almost wildly; "yes—you shall—you must be a brother to me! And
      I will be your sister! Ah! there is consolation in that idea!"—then, after a moment's pause,
      she added, "But the time is not yet come when I, as a sister, shall appeal to you as a brother
      for that aid which a brother alone can give! And until then—ask me no more—speak to me no
      farther upon the subject—I implore you!"  
  Ellen pressed Richard's hand convulsively, and then hurried from the room.  
  Markham had scarcely recovered from the astonishment into which these last words had thrown
      him,—words which, coming from the lips of a young and beautiful girl, were fraught with
      additional mystery and interest,—when Whittingham entered the library.  
  "A young lad, Master Richard," said the old butler, "has called about the situation which is
      wacated in our household. I took the percaution of leaving word yesterday with the people at a
      public of most dubitable respectability called the   Servants' Arms  , where I call now
      and then when I go into town; and it appears that this young lad having called in there quite
      perspicuously this morning heard of the place."  
  "Let him step in, Whittingham," said Markham. "I will speak to him—although, to tell you the
      truth, I do not admire a public-house recommendation."  
  Whittingham made no reply, but opening the door, exclaimed, "Step in here, young man; step
      in here."  
  And Henry Holford stood in the presence of Richard Markham.  
  Whittingham retired.  
  "I believe you are in want of a young lad, sir," said Holford, "to assist in the house."  
  "I am," answered Markham. "Have you over served in that capacity before?"  
  "No, sir; but if you would take me and give me a trial, I should feel very much obliged. I
      have neither father or mother, and am totally dependant upon my own exertions."  
  These words were quite sufficient to command the attention and sympathy of the
      generous-hearted Richard. The lad was moreover of superior manners, and well-spoken; and there
      was something in his appeal to Markham which was very touching.  
  "What have you been before, my good lad?"  
  "To tell you the truth, sir," was the reply, "I have been a simple pot-boy in a
      public-house."  
  "And of course the landlord will give you a character?"  
  "Yes—for honesty and industry, sir; but—"  
  "But what?"  
  "I do not think it is of any use to apply to the landlord for a character, because—"  
  "Because what?" demanded Markham, seeing that the young man again hesitated. "If you can
      have a character for honesty and industry, you need not be afraid of any thing else that could
      be said of you."  
  "The truth is, sir," answered Holford, "I absented myself without leave, and remained away
      for two or three days: then, when I returned this morning at a very early hour I refused to
      give an account of my proceedings. That is the whole truth, sir; and if you will only give me
      a trial—"  
  "There is something very straightforward and ingenuous about you," said Markham: "perhaps
      you would have no objection to tell me how you were occupied during your absence."  
  "That, sir, is impossible! But I declare most solemnly that I did nothing for which I can
      reproach myself—unless," added Holford, "it was in leading a couple of villains to believe
      that I would do a certain thing which I never once intended to do."  
  "Really your answers are so strange," cried Richard, "that I know not what to say to you. It
      however appears from your last observation that two villains tempted you to do something
      wrong—that you lead them to believe you would fall into their plans—and that you never meant
      to fulfil your promise."  
  "It is all perfectly true, sir. They proposed a certain scheme in which I was to be an
      agent: I accepted the office they assigned to me, because it suited my disposition, and
      promised to gratify my curiosity in a way where it was deeply interested."  
  "And how did you explain your conduct to the two men whom you speak of?" inquired Richard,
      not knowing what to think of the young lad, but half inclining to believe that his bruin was
      affected.  
  "I invented certain excuses, sir," was Holford's reply, "which completely damped their
      ardour in the matter alluded to. And now, sir, will you give me a trial? I feel convinced you
      will: had I not thought so from the very beginning, I should not have spoken so freely as I
      have done."  
  "I am disposed to assist you—I am desirous to meet your wishes," said Markham. "Still, your
      representations are rather calculated to awaken fears than clear up doubts concerning you.
      What guarantee can you offer that you will never see those two villains again? what
      security—"  
  "Sir," said Holford, "your own manner is so frank and kind—so very condescending, indeed, to
      a poor lad like me—that I would not deceive you for the world. I   had   promised to meet
      those men to-night—for the last time—"  
  "To meet them again?"  
    
  "Ah! young man," cried Markham, "this is most imprudent—if not actually criminal! and where
      was this precious interview to take place?"  
  "At the   Dark-House  , sir—"  
  "The   Dark-House  !" ejaculated Markham: "what—a low tavern in Brick Lane,
      Spitalfields?"  
  "The same, sir."  
  "And the names of the two men?" demanded Richard hastily.  
  "Their right names and those by which they are commonly known amongst their own set, are
      very different," said Holford.  
  "How are they known? what are they called in their own infamous sphere?" cried Markham, his
      impatience amounting almost to a fever: "speak!"  
  "I do not know whether I shall be doing right," said Holford, hesitating,—"perhaps I have
      already told you too much—"  
  "Speak, I say!" cried Richard, taking Holford by the collar of his jacket; "speak. You do
      not know—you cannot guess how necessary it is for me to have my present suspicions cleared up!
      Speak—I swear no harm shall happen to you: on the contrary—I will reward you, if it should
      turn out as I suppose. Once more, who are these villains?"  
  "They are called—"  
  "What? speak—speak!"  
  "The Resurrection Man—"  
  "Ah!"  
  "And the Cracksman."  
  "Then I am right—my suspicions are confirmed!" ejaculated Markham, relinquishing his hold
      upon Holford's jacket, and throwing himself upon a chair. "Sit down, my good lad—sit down: you
      and I have not done with each other yet."  
  The young man appeared alarmed by Richard's exclamations and manners, and seemed undecided
      whether to remain where he was or attempt to escape.  
  Richard divined what was passing in the lad's bosom, and hastened to reassure him.  
  "Sit down—and fear nothing. I swear most solemnly that no harm shall happen to you, be you
      who or what you may: for I cannot suppose that you are a participator in the crimes of these
      miscreants. You would not have come to me to tell me all this—Oh! no; Providence has sent you
      hither this day."  
  Holford took a seat, wondering how this extraordinary scene was to terminate.  
  "Are you aware of the pursuits of those two men whom you have named—I mean the full extent
      of the atrocity of their pursuits?" demanded Richard, after a few moments' pause.  
  "I know that they are body-snatchers and burglars, sir," answered Holford: "indeed it was a
      burglary of which they would have made me the instrument; but, oh! sir—believe me, I am
      incapable of such a crime; and the representations I have made to them have induced them to
      abandon all idea of it."  
  "And you are not aware, then," continued Richard, "that they are more than body-snatchers
      and burglars?"  
  "More, sir!" repeated Holford in a tone of unfeigned surprise: "Oh! no, sir—how can they be
      more than that?"  
  "They are more—far more," rejoined Markham, with a shudder: "they are murderers!"  
  "Murderers!" ejaculated Holford, starting from his chair with mingled emotions of horror and
      alarm.  
  "Yes—murderers of the most diabolical and cold-blooded description," said Markham. "But it
      is too long a tale to tell you now. Let it suffice for you to know that I was myself upon the
      point of becoming a victim to that most infernal of all miscreants, the Resurrection Man; and
      I should conceive that the other whom you named is in all respects as bad as he!"  
  "Murderers!" repeated Holford, his mental eyes fixed, by a horrible and snake-like
      fascination, upon the fearful idea now suddenly engendered in his imagination.  
  "Murderers," echoed Markham solemnly; "and through you must they be surrendered up to
      justice!"  
  "Through me!" cried Holford.  
  "Yes—through you. If you be really imbued with such honourable feelings as you ere now
      professed, you will not hesitate for one moment in discharging this duty towards society."  
  "But it would be an odious act of treachery on my part," said Holford, "let the men be what
      they may."  
  "If you manifest such a reluctance to rid the metropolis of two murderers," cried Markham
      angrily, "I shall conceive that you are more intimately connected with them than you choose to
      admit. But if you imagine that these villains are more innocent than I describe them—if you
      fancy that some motive prompts me to exaggerate their infamy, I will tell you that no language
      can enhance their guilt—no vengeance be too severe. Have you not heard that men have
      disappeared in a most strange and mysterious manner within the last year, at the eastern end
      of the metropolis,—disappeared without leaving a trace behind them,—men who were not in that
      situation which hurries the despairing wretch on to suicide? You must have heard of this! If
      not, learn the dismal fact now from my lips! But the assassins—the dark and secret assassins
      of these numerous victims, are the wretches whom we shall this night lodge in the grasp of
      justice!"  
  "As you will, sir," said Holford, awe-inspired by the solemnity of Markham's voice, and the
      impressiveness of his manner. "I was to meet them at the   Dark-House   at nine o'clock:
      do you take measures to secure them."  
  "Most assuredly I will," returned Markham emphatically. "And when I think of all that you
      have told me, my good lad," continued Richard, "I am inclined to believe that you yourself
      would have been a victim to those wretches."  
  "Me!" exclaimed Holford, horror-struck at the mere idea.  
  "Yes—such is now my conviction. They made an appointment with you at the
        Dark-House  , to give you a sum of money you say?"  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "Foolish boy! Do such men pay their agents or accomplices who fail to fulfil their designs,
      or who deceive them? do such men part with their money so readily—that money which they
      encounter so many perils to obtain? And that   Dark-House  —the place of your
      appointment,—that   Dark-House   is in the immediate neighbourhood of the head-quarters
      of their crimes! Yes—there cannot be a doubt: you also were to be a victim!"  
  "My God! what a fearful danger have I incurred!" ejaculated Holford, shuddering from head to
      foot, as Markham thus addressed him; then, when he called to mind the ferocity with which the
      Cracksman menaced him with his knife, and the coaxing manner in which the Resurrection Man had
      engaged him to form the appointment for the evening, he felt convinced that the dread
      suspicion was a correct one.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Yes, sir; and now let me thank you with the most unfeigned sincerity for having thus saved
      me from a dreadful death. Your kindness and condescension have led to a lengthy conversation
      between us; and accident has made me reveal to you those particulars which have led you to
      form that conclusion relative to the fate destined for myself. You must not imagine for a
      moment that I would league with such villains in any of their diabolical plans. No, sir—I
      would sooner be led forth to the place of execution this minute. Although I consented to do
      their bidding in one respect, I repeat that I had mine own curiosity to gratify—that is, my
      own inclinations to serve: but when they wished to make me their instrument and tool in
      forwarding their unholy motives, I shrank back in dismay. Oh! yes, sir—now I comprehend the
      entire infamy of those men's characters: I see from what a fearful abyss I have escaped."  
  There was again something so sincere and so natural in the manner and emphasis of this young
      lad, that Markham surveyed him with sentiments of mingled interest and surprise. Then all the
      thoughts of our hero were directed towards the one grand object he had in view—that of
      delivering a horde of ruffians over to justice.  
  "The gang may be more numerous than I imagine," said Markham; "indeed, I know that there are
      a third man and hideous woman connected with those two assassins whom you have already named.
      It will therefore be advisable to lay such a trap that will lead to the capture of them
      all."  
  "Oh! by all means, sir," exclaimed Holford, enthusiastically: "I do not wish to show them
      any mercy now!"  
  "We have no time to lose: it is now four o'clock," said Markham; "and we must arrange the
      plan of proceeding with the police. You will accompany me on this enterprise."  
  "Mr. Markham," returned Holford, respectfully but firmly, "I have no objection to aid you in
      any shape or way in capturing these miscreants, and rooting out their head quarters; but I
      must beg of you not to place me in a position where I shall be questioned how I came to make
      this appointment for to-night with those two wretches. It would compel me to make a revelation
      of the manner in which I employed my time during the last few days; and   that  —for
      certain reasons—I could not do!"  
  Markham appeared to reflect profoundly.  
  "I do not see how your presence can be dispensed with," he observed at the expiration of
      some minutes. "In order to discover the exact spot where the murderers dwell, it will be
      advisable for you to allow yourself to be inveigled thither, and myself and the police would
      be close behind you."  
  "Oh! never—never, sir!" cried Holford, turning deadly pale. "Were you to miss us only for a
      moment—or were you to force an entrance a single instant too late—my life would be sacrificed
      to those wretches."  
   with the police. You can remain here until my return. To-morrow inquiry shall be
      made relative to your honesty and industry; and, those points satisfactorily ascertained, I
      will take you into my service, without asking any farther questions."  
  Holford expressed his gratitude for this kindness on the part of Markham, and was then
      handed over to the care of Whittingham.  
  Having partaken of some hasty refreshment, and armed himself with a brace of pistols, in
      preparation for his enterprise, Richard proceeded with all possible speed into London.  
  
  CHAPTER LXV. THE WRONGS AND CRIMES OF THE POOR.  
  THE parlour of the   Dark-House   was, as usual, filled with a very tolerable sprinkle
      of queer-looking customers. One would have thought, to look at their beards, that there was
      not a barber in the whole district of the Tower Hamlets; and yet it appears to be a social
      peculiarity, that the lower the neighbourhood, the more numerous the shaving-shops. Amongst
      the very rich classes, nobles and gentlemen are shaved by their valets: the males of the
      middle grade shave themselves; and the men of the lower orders are shaved at barbers' shops.
      Hence the immense number of party-coloured poles projecting over the pavement of miserable and
      dirty streets, and the total absence of those signs in wealthy districts.  
  The guests in the   Dark-House   parlour formed about as pleasant an assemblage of
      scamps as one could wish to behold. The establishment was a notorious resort for thieves and
      persons of the worst character; and no one who frequented it thought it worth while to shroud
      his real occupation beneath an air of false modesty. The conversation in the parlour,
      therefore, usually turned upon the tricks and exploits of the thieves frequenting the place;
      and many entertaining autobiographical sketches were in this way delivered. Women often
      constituted a portion of the company in the parlour; and they were invariably the most noisy
      and quarrelsome of all the guests. Whenever the landlord was compelled to call in the police,
      to have a clearance of the house—a proceeding to which he only had recourse when his guests
      were drunk and penniless, and demanded supplies of liquor upon credit,—a woman was sure to be
      at the bottom of the row; and a virago of Spitalfields would think no more of smashing every
      window in the house, or dashing out the landlord's brains with one of his own pewter-pots,
      than of tossing off a tumbler of raw gin without winking.  
  On the evening of which we are writing there were several women in the parlour of the
         Dark-House  . These horrible females were the "blowens" of the thieves frequenting the
      house, and the principal means of disposing of the property stolen by their paramours. They
      usually ended by betraying their lovers to the police, in fits of jealousy; and yet—by some
      strange infatuation on the part of those lawless men—the women who acted in this way speedily
      obtained fresh husbands upon the morganatic system. For the most part, these females are
      disfigured by intemperance; and their conversation is far more revolting than that of the
      males. Oh! there is no barbarism in the whole world so truly horrible and ferocious—so obscene
      and shameless—as that which is found in the poor districts of London!  
  Alas! what a wretched mockery it is to hold grand meetings at Exeter Hall, and proclaim,
      with all due pomp and ceremony, how many savages in the far-off islands of the globe have been
      converted to Christianity, when here—at home, under our very eyes—even London itself swarms
      with infidels of a more dangerous character:—how detestable is it for philanthropy to be
      exercised in clothing negroes or Red Men thousands of miles distant, while our own poor are
      cold and naked at our very doors:—how monstrously absurd to erect twelve new churches in
      Bethnal Green, and withhold the education that would alone enable the poor to appreciate the
      doctrines enunciated from that dozen of freshly-built pulpits!  
  But to return to the parlour of the   Dark-House  .  
  In one corner sate the Resurrection Man and the Cracksman, each with a smoking glass of
      gin-and-water before him. They mingled but little in the conversation, contenting themselves
      with laughing an approval of any thing good that fell upon their ears, and listening to the
      discourse that took place around them.  
  "Now, come, tell us, Joe," said a woman with eyes like saucers, hair like a bundle of tow,
      and teeth like dominoes, and addressing herself to a man who was dressed like a
      coal-heaver,—"tell us, Joe, how you come to be a prig?"  
  "Ah! do, Joe—there's a good feller," echoed a dozen voices, male and female.  
  "Lor' it's simple enough," cried the man thus appealed to: "every poor devil must become a
      thief in time."  
  "That's what you say, Tony," whispered the Cracksman to the Resurrection Man.  
  "Of course he must," continued the coal-heaver; "more partickler them as follows my old
      trade—for though I've got on the togs of a whipper, I ain't one no longer. The dress is
      convenient—that's all."  
  "The Blue-bottles don't twig—eh?" cried the woman with the domino teeth.  
  "That's it: but you asked me how I come to be a prig—I'll tell you. My father was a
      coal-whipper, and had three sons. He brought us all up to be coal-whippers also. My eldest
      brother was drownded in the pool one night when he was drunk, after only drinking about two
      pots of the publicans' beer: my other brother died of hunger in Cold-Bath Fields prison, where
      he was sent for three months for taking home a bit of coal one night to his family when he
      couldn't get his wages paid him by the publican that hired the gang in which he worked. My
      father died when he was forty—and any one to have seen him would have fancied he was
      sixty-five at least—so broke down was he with hard work and drinking. But no coal-whipper
      lives to an old age: they all die off at about forty—old men in the wery prime of life."  
  "And why's that?" demanded the large-toothed lady.  
  "Why not?" repeated the man. "Because a coal-whipper isn't a human being—or if he is, he
      isn't treated as such: and so I've always thought he must be different from the rest of the
      world."  
  "How isn't he treated like any one else?"  
   the collier: the working of the collier is farmed by them landlords I speak of;
      and the whipper must apply at their houses. Those whippers as drinks the most always gets
      employment first; and whether a whipper chooses to drink beer or not, it's always sent three
      times a-day on board the colliers for the gangs. And, my eye! what stuff it is! Often and
      often have we throwed it away, 'cos we could'nt possibly drink it—and it must be queer liquor
      that a coal-whipper won't drink!"  
  "I should think so too. But go on."  
  "Well, I used to earn from fifteen to eighteen shillings a-week; and out of that, eight was
      always stopped for the beer; and if I didn't spend another or two on Saturday night when I
      received the balance, the landlord set me down as a stingy feller and put a cross agin my name
      in his book."  
  "What was that for?"  
  "Why, not to give me any more work till he was either forced to do so for want of hands, or
      I made it up with him by standing a crown bowl of punch. So what with one thing and another, I
      had to keep myself, my wife, and three children, on about seven or eight shillings
      a-week—after working from light to dark."  
  "And now your wife and children is better purvided for?" said the woman with the huge
      teeth.  
  "Yes—indeed! in the workus," answered the man, sharply. "So now you see what a
      coal-whipper's life is. He can't be a sober man if he wishes to—because he must pay for a
      certain quantity of drink; and so of course he won't throw it away, unless it's so bad he
      can't keep it on his stomach."  
  "And was that often the case?"  
  "Often and often. Well—he can't be a saving man, because he has no chance of getting his
      wages under his own management. He is the publican's slave—the publican's tool and instrument.
      Negro slavery is nothing to it. No tyranny is equal to the tyranny of them publicans."  
  "And why isn't the plan altered?"  
  "Ah! why? What do the owners of the colliers, or the people that the cargo's consigned to,
      care about the poor devils that unload? The publicans takes the unloading on contract, and
      employs the whippers in such away as to get an enormous profit. Talk of appealing to the
      owners—what do they care? There has been meetings got up to change the system—and what's the
      consekvence? Why, them whippers as attended them became marked men, never got no more
      employment, and drownded themselves in despair, or turned prigs like me."  
  "Ah! that's better than suicide."  
  "Well—I don't know, now! But them meetings as I was a-speaking of, got up deputations to the
      Court of Aldermen, and the matter was referred to the Coal and Corn Committee—and there was,
      as usual, a great talk, but nothink done. Then an application was made to some Minister—I
      don't know which; and he sent back a letter with a seal as big as a crown-piece, just to say
      that he'd received the application, and would give it his earliest attention. Some time passed
      away, and no more notice was ever taken of it in that quarter; and so, I s'pose, a Minister's
      earliest attention means ten or a dozen years."  
  "What a shame to treat people so."  
  "It's only the poor that's treated so. And now I think I have said enough to show why I
      turned prig, like a many more whippers from the port of London. There isn't a more degraded,
      oppressed, and brutalized set of men in the world than the whippers. They are born with
      examples of drunken fathers afore their eyes; and drunken fathers makes drunken mothers; and
      drunken parents makes sons turn out thieves, and daughters prostitutes;—and that's the
      existence of the coal-whippers of Wapping. It ain't their fault: they haven't edication and
      self-command to refuse the drink that's forced upon them, and that they must pay for;—and
      their sons and daughters shouldn't be blamed for turning out bad. How can they help it? And
      yet one reads in the papers that the upper classes is always a-crying out about the dreadful
      immorality of the poor!"  
  "The laws—the laws, you see, Tony," whispered the Cracksman to his companion.  
  "Of course," answered the Resurrection Man. "Here we are, in this room, upwards of twenty
      thieves and prostitutes: I'll be bound to say that the laws and the state of society made
      eighteen of them what they are."  
  "Nobody knows the miseries of a coal-whipper's life," continued the orator of the evening,
      "but him that's been in it his-self. He is always dirty—always lurking about public-houses
      when not at work—always ready to drink—always in debt—and always dissatisfied with his own way
      of living, which isn't, however, his fault. There's no hope for coal-whippers or their
      families. The sons that don't turn out thieves must lead the same terrible life of cart-horse
      labour and constant drinking, with the certainty of dying old men at forty;—and the daughters
      that don't turn out prostitutes marry whippers, and draw down upon their heads all the horrors
      and sorrows of the life I have been describing."  
  "Well—I never knowed all this before!"  
  "No—and there's a deal of misery of each kind in London that isn't known to them as dwells
      in the other kinds of wretchedness: and if these things gets represented in Parliament, the
      cry is, '  Oh! the people's always complaining; they're never satisfied  .'"  
  "Well, you speak of each person knowing his own species of misery, and being ignorant of the
      nature of the misery next door," said a young and somewhat prepossessing woman, but upon whose
      face intemperance and licentiousness had made sad havoc; "all I can say is, that people see
      girls like us laughing and joking always in public—but they little know how we weep and moan
      in private."  
  "Drink gin then, as I do," cried the woman with the large teeth.  
  "Ah!   you   know well enough," continued the young female who had previously spoken,
      "that we   do   drink a great deal too much of that! My father used to sell   jiggered
       gin   in George Yard, Whitechapel."  
  "And what the devil is jiggered gin?" demanded one of the male guests.  
  "It's made from molasses, beer, and vitriol. Lor', every one knows what jiggered gin is.
      Three wine glasses of it will make the strongest man mad drunk. I'll tell you one thing,"
      continued the young woman, "which you do not seem to know—and that is, that the very, very
      poor people who are driven almost to despair and suicide by their sorrows, are glad to drink
      this jiggered gin, which is all that they can afford. For three halfpence they may have enough
      to send them raving; and then what do they think or care about their miseries?"  
  "Ah! very true," said the coal whipper. "I've heard of this before."  
   the young woman; "and though he was constantly getting into trouble for it, he
      didn't mind; but the moment he came out of prison, he took to his old trade again. I was his
      only child; and my mother died when I was about nine years old. She was always drunk with the
      jiggered gin; and one day she fell into the fire and was burnt to death. I had no one then who
      cared any thing for me, but used to run about in the streets with all the boys in the
      neighbourhood. My father took in lodgers; and sixteen or seventeen of us, boys and girls all
      huddled together, used to sleep in one room not near so big as this. There was fifteen lodging
      houses of the same kind in George Yard at that time; and it was supposed that about two
      hundred and seventy-five persons need to sleep in those houses every night, male and female
      lodgers all pigging together. Every sheet, blanket, and bolster, in my father's house was
      marked with STOP THIEF, in large letters. Well—at eleven years old I went upon the town; and
      if I didn't bring home so much money every Saturday night to my father, I used to be well
      thrashed with a rope's end on my bare back."  
  "Serve you right too, a pretty girl like you."  
  "Ah! you may joke about it—but it was no joke to me! I would gladly have done anything in an
      honest way to get my livelihood—"  
  "Like me, when I was young," whispered the Resurrection Man to his companion.  
  "Exactly. Let's hear what the gal has got to say for herself," returned the Cracksman; "the
      lush has made her sentimental;—she'll soon be crying drunk."  
  "But I was doomed, it seemed," continued the young woman, "to live in this horrible manner.
      When I was thirteen or fourteen my father died, and I was then left to shift for myself. I
      moved down into Wapping, and frequented the long-rooms belonging to the public-houses there. I
      was then pretty well off; because the sailors that went to these places always had plenty of
      money and was very generous. But I was one night suspected of hocussing and robbing a sailor,
      and—though if I was on my death-bed I could swear that I never had any hand in the affair at
      all—I was so blown upon that I was forced to shift my quarters. So I went to a
         dress-house   in Ada Street, Hackney Road. All the remuneration I received there was
      board and lodging; and I was actually a slave to the old woman that kept it. I was forced to
      walk the streets at night with a little girl following me to see that I did not run away; and
      all the money I received I was forced to give up to the old woman. While I was there, several
      other girls were turned out of doors, and left to die in ditches or on dunghills, because they
      were no longer serviceable. All this frightened me. And then I was so ill-used, and more than
      half starved. I was forced to turn out in all weathers—wet or dry—hot or cold—well or ill.
      Sometimes I have hardly been able to drag myself out of bed with sickness and fatigue—but, no
      matter, out I must go—the rain perhaps pouring in torrents, or the roads knee-deep in snow—and
      nothing but a thin cotton gown to wear! Winter and summer, always flaunting dresses—yellow,
      green, and red! Wet or dry, always silk stockings and thin shoes! Cold or warm, always short
      skirts and a low body, with strict orders not to fasten the miserable scanty shawl over the
      bosom! And then the little girl that followed me about was a spy with wits as sharp as
      needles. Impossible to deceive her! At length I grew completely tired of this kind of life;
      and so I gave the little spy the slip one fine evening. I was then sixteen, and I came back to
      this neighbourhood. But one day I met the old woman who kept the dress-house, and she gave me
      in charge for stealing wearing apparel—the clothes I had on my back when I ran away from
      her!"  
  "Always the police—the police—the police, when the poor and miserable are concerned,"
      whispered the Resurrection Man to the Cracksman.  
  "But did the inspector take the charge?" demanded the coal-heaver.  
  "He not only took the charge," answered the unfortunate girl, "but the magistrate next
      morning committed me for trial, although I proved to him that the clothes were bought with the
      wages of my own prostitution! Well, I was tried at the Central Criminal Court—"  
  "And of course acquitted?"  
  "No—found   Guilty  ——"  
  "What—by an English jury?"  
  "I can show you the newspaper—I have kept the report of the trial ever since."  
  "Then, by G—d, things are a thousand times worse than I thought they was!" ejaculated the
      coal-whipper, striking his clenched fist violently upon the table at which he was seated.  
  "But the jury recommended me to mercy," continued the unfortunate young woman, "and so the
      Recorder only sentenced me to twenty-one days' imprisonment. His lordship also read me a long
      lecture about the errors of my ways, and advised me to enter upon a new course of life; but he
      did not offer to give me a character, nor did he tell me how I was to obtain honest employment
      without one."  
  "That's the way with them beaks," cried one of the male inmates of the parlour: "they can
      talk for an hour; but supposing you'd said to the Recorder, '  My Lord, will your wife take
       me into her service as scullery-girl?  ' he would have stared in astonishment at your
      imperence."  
  "When I got out of prison," resumed the girl who was thus sketching the adventures of her
      wretched life, "I went into Great Titchfield Street. My new abode was a dress-house kept by
      French people. Every year the husband went over to France, and returned with a famous supply
      of French girls, and in the mean time his wife decoyed young English women up from the
      country, under pretence of obtaining situations as nursery-governesses and lady's-maids for
      them. Many of these poor creatures were the daughters of clergymen and half-pay officers in
      the marines. The moment a new supply was obtained by these means, circulars was sent round to
      all the persons that was in the habit of using the house. Different sums, from twenty to a
      hundred pounds—"  
  "Ah! I understand," said the coal-whipper. "But did you ever hear say how many unfortunate
      gals there was in London?"  
  "Eighty thousand. From Titchfield Street I went into the Almonry, Westminster. The houses
      there are all occupied by   fences  , prigs, and gals of the town."  
  "And the parsons of Westminster Abbey, who is the landlords of the houses, does nothink to
      put 'em down," said the coal-whipper.  
  "Not a bit," echoed the young woman, with a laugh. "We had capital fun in the house where I
      lived—dog-fighting, badger-baiting, and drinking all day long. The police never visits the
      Almonry—"  
  "In course not, 'cos it's the property of the parsons. They wouldn't be so rude."  
   by the thieves and loose women assembled in the   Dark-House   parlour.  target="#ENG18460_N075" [75]    
  "Well, go on, my dear," said the coal-whipper, when order was somewhat restored.  
  "I never was in a sentimental humour before to-night—not for many, many years," resumed the
      young woman; "and I don't know what's making me talk as I am now."  
  "'Cos you haven't had enough gin, my dear," interrupted a coarse-looking fellow, winking to
      his companions.  
  Scarcely was the laughter promoted by this sally beginning to subside, when a short,
      thick-set, middle-aged man, enveloped in a huge great-coat, with most capacious pockets at the
      sides, entered the parlour, took his seat near the door, and called for a glass of hot
      gin-and-water.  
  
  CHAPTER LXVI. THE RESULT OF MARKHAM'S ENTERPRISE.  
  THE reader at all acquainted with German literature may probably remember some of those old
      tales of demonology and witchcraft, in which assemblies of jovial revellers are frequently
      dismayed and overawed by the sudden entrance of some mysterious stranger—perhaps a knight in
      black armour, with his vizor closed, or a monk with his cowl drawn over his countenance. If
      the recollection of such an episode in the sphere of romance recur to the reader's mind, he
      will have no difficulty in comprehending us when we state that the presence of the short,
      thick-set, middle-aged stranger caused an immediate damp to fall upon the spirits of the
      company in the   Dark-House   parlour.  
  The stranger seemed to take no notice of any one present, but drank his grog, lighted his
      cigar, and settled himself in his seat, apparently with the view of making himself very
      comfortable.  
  Still there was something sinister and mysterious about this man, which did not exactly
      please the other inmates of the room; and as we cannot suppose that the consciences of these
      persons were over pure, the least appearance of ambiguity to them was an instantaneous omen of
      danger. Like the dog that scents the corpse of the murdered victim, even when buried deep in
      the earth, those wretches possessed an instinct marvellously sensitive and acute in perceiving
      the approach or presence of peril.  
  And yet, to a common beholder, there was nothing very remarkable about that stranger. He was
      a plain-looking, quiet, shabbily dressed person, and one who seemed anxious to smoke his cigar
      in peace, and neither speak nor be spoken to.  
  Good reader—it was the reserve of this man,—his staid and serious demeanour—his tranquil
      countenance—and his exclusive manner altogether, that created the unpleasant impression we
      have described. Had he entered the room with a swagger, banged the door behind him, sworn at
      the waiter, or nodded to one single individual present, he would have produced no embarrassing
      sensation whatever. But he was unknown:—what, then, could he do there, where all were well
      known to each other?  
  However, he continued to smoke, with his eyes intently fixed upon the blueish wreaths that
      ascended slowly and fantastically from the end of his cigar; and for five minutes after his
      entrance not a word was spoken.  
  At length the coal-whipper broke silence.  
  "Well, my dear," he said, addressing himself to the unfortunate girl who had already
      narrated a portion of her adventures, "you haven't done your story yet."  
  "Oh! I do not feel in the humour to go on with it to-night," she exclaimed, glancing
      uneasily towards the stranger. "Indeed, I recollect—I have an appointment—close by—"  
  She hesitated; then, apparently mustering up her courage, cried "Good-night, all," and left
      the room.  
  "Who the deuce is that feller, Tony?" demanded the Cracksman, in a whisper, of his
      companion. "I can't say I like his appearance at all."  
  "Oh! nonsense," answered the Resurrection Man: "he is some quiet chap that doesn't like to
      smoke and talk at the same time."  
  "But don't it seem as how he'd throwed a damp on the whole party?" continued the Cracksman,
      in the same subdued tone.  
  "Do you take me for a child that's frightened at a shadow?" said the Resurrection Man
      savagely. "I suppose you're afraid that this young Holford will play us false. Why—what could
      he do to us? Anything he revealed would only implicate himself. He knows nothing about our
      games up by the Bird-cage Walk there."  
  "I forgot   that  ;—no more he doesn't," cried the Cracksman. "There's nobody can do us
      any harm, that I know on."  
  "One—and one only," answered the Resurrection Man, sinking his already subdued tone to the
      lowest possible whisper,—"one only, I say, can injure us; and he will not dare to do it!"  
  "Who the devil do you mean?" demanded the Cracksman.  
  "I mean the only man that ever escaped out of the crib up by the walk after he had received
      a blow from my stick," answered the Resurrection Man.  
  "You don't mean to say, Tony," whispered the Cracksman, his countenance giving the most
      unequivocal signs of alarm, "that there's a breathing soul which ever went in the door of that
      crib an intended wictim, and come out alive agin!"  
  "Never do you mind now. We shall make all the people stare at us if we go on whispering in
      this way. Supposing any one   did    
  "Ah! Tony," said the Cracksman, in whose mind these words of his companion seemed to arouse
      a sudden and most disagreeable idea,—"talking about   nosing   makes me remember someot
      that I was told a few days ago up in Rat's Castle in the Rookery."  
  "And what was that?" asked the Resurrection Man, surveying his friend with his serpent-like
      eyes in a manner that made him actually quail beneath the glance.  
  "What was it?" repeated the Cracksman, who appeared to hesitate whether he should proceed,
      or not: "why—I heard a magsman say that you nosed upon poor Crankey Jem, and that was the
      reason he got lagged and you was acquitted three year ago at the Old Bailey."  
  "And what did you say to that?" demanded the Resurrection Man, looking from beneath his
      bushy brows at the Cracksman, as the ghole in eastern mythology may be supposed to gaze on the
      countenance of him whom he marks for his victim.  
  "What did I say?" answered the Cracksman in a hoarse whisper: "why—I knocked the fellow down
      to be sure."  
  "And you did what you ought to do, and what I should have done if any one had told me
         that   of you," said the Resurrection Man in a tone of the most perfect composure.  
  While this conversation took place, hurriedly and in whispers, the mysterious stranger
      continued to smoke his cigar without once glancing around him; and the other inmates of the
         Dark-House   parlour, recovering a little from their panic at the entrance of that
      individual, made a faint attempt to renew the discourse.  
  But although the eyes of the stranger were apparently occupied in watching the wreaths of
      smoke, as they curled upwards to the ceiling, they were in reality intent upon the parlour
      window, the lower part of which alone was darkened by the sliding shutter that lifted up and
      down. There was a bright lamp over the front door of the public-house; and thus the heads of
      all the passengers in the street might be descried, as they passed the window, by the inmates
      of the parlour.  
  "I say, Ben," exclaimed one reveller to another, "have you heerd that they're a goin' to lay
      out a park up by Bonner's Road and Hackney Wick?"  
  "Yes—the Wictoria Park," was the reply. "On'y fancy giving them poor devils of Spitalfields
      weavers a park to walk in instead o' filling their bellies. But I 'spose they'll make a
      preshus deep pond in it."  
  "What for?" demanded the first speaker.  
  "Why—for the poor creturs to drown theirselves in, to be sure."  
  At this moment the countenance of a man in the street peered for a single instant over the
      shutter, and was then immediately withdrawn; but not before a significant glance had been
      exchanged with the stranger sitting in the neighbourhood of the door.  
  All this, however, remained entirely unnoticed by the male and female revellers in the
      parlour.  
  "Well, it's gone nine," whispered the Cracksman to his companion, "and this fellow Holford
      don't come. It's my opinion he ain't a-going to."  
  "We'll give him half an hour's grace," returned the Resurrection Man. "The young fool is
      hard up, and won't let the hope of five couters slip through his brain quite so easy."  
  "Half an hour's grace, as you say, Tony," whispered the Cracksman; "and then if he don't
      come: we'll be off—eh?"  
  "Oh! just as you like," growled the Resurrection Man. "You seem quite chicken-hearted
      to-night, Tom."  
  "I don't know how it is," answered the Cracksman; "but I've got a persentiment—as they calls
      it—of evil. The sight of that there feller there——" and he nodded towards the stranger.  
  "Humbug!" interrupted the Resurrection Man, "you haven't had grog enough—that's it."  
  He accordingly ordered the waiter to supply fresh tumblers of hot liquor; and the next half
      hour slipped away rapidly enough; but no Henry Holford made his appearance.  
  At a quarter to ten the two villains rose, and, having settled their score, departed.  
  Scarcely had the parlour door closed behind them, when the short thick-set stranger also
      retreated precipitately from the room.  
  Disappointed and in an ill-humour, the Resurrection Man and the Cracksman hurried away from
      the   Dark-House   towards the den situate in the immediate vicinity of the Bird-cage
      Walk.  
  The streets were ankle-deep in mud: a thin mizzling rain was falling; and neither moon nor
      stars appeared upon the dark and murky field of heaven.  
  The two men walked one a little in advance of the other, until they reached the top of Brick
      Lane, where they separated for the purpose of proceeding by different routes towards the game
      point—a precaution they invariably adopted after quitting any public place in each other's
      company.  
  But so well were the arrangements of the police concocted, that while the Resurrection Man
      continued his way along Tyssen Street, and the Cracksman turned to the right in Church Street
      until he reached Samuel Street, up which he proceeded, an active officer followed each: while
      in the neighbourhood of Virginia Street and the Bird-cage Walk numerous policemen were
      concealed in dark alleys, lone courts, and obscure nooks, ready to hasten to any point whence
      the spring of rattles might presently emanate.  
  Also concealed in a convenient hiding-place, and anxiously awaiting the result of the
      various combinations effected to discover the den of the murderers, Richard Markham was
      prepared to aid in the operations of the night.  
  Meantime, the Resurrection Man pursued one route, and the Cracksman another, both converging
      towards the same point; but neither individual suspected that danger was on every side! They
      advanced as confidently as the flies that work their way amidst the tangled web of the
      spider.  
  At length the Resurrection Man reached his house; and almost at the same moment the other
      ruffian arrived at the door.  
  "All right, Tom."  
  "All right, Tony."  
  And the Resurrection Man opened the door, by simply pressing his foot forcibly against it in
      a peculiar manner.  
  He entered the passage, followed by the Cracksman, which latter individual turned to close
      the door, when it was burst wide open and half a dozen policemen rushed into the house.  
  "Damnation!" cried the Resurrection Man; "we are sold!"—and, darting down the passage, he
      rushed into the little back room, the door of which he succeeded in closing and fastening
      against the officers.  
    
  "Break open the door there!" cried the serjeant who commanded the police, and who was no
      other than the mysterious stranger of the   Dark-House   parlour: "break open that
      door—and two of you run up stairs this moment!"  
  As he spoke, a strong light shone from the top of the staircase. The officers cast their
      eyes in that direction, and beheld a hideous old woman scowling down upon them. In her hand
      she carried a candle, the light of which was thrown forward in a vivid flood by the reflection
      of a huge bright tin shade.  
  This horrible old woman was the Mummy.  
  Already were two of the officers half-way up the staircase,—already was the door of the back
      room on the ground floor yielding to the strength of a constable,—already were Richard Markham
      and several officers hurrying down the street towards the spot, obedient to the signal
      conveyed by the springing of the rattles,—when a terrific explosion took place.  
  "Good God!" ejaculated Markham: "what can that mean?"  
  "There—there!" cried a policeman near him: "it is all over with the serjeant and my poor
      comrades!"  
  Immediately after the explosion, and while Markham and the officer were yet speaking, a
      bright column of fire shot up into the air:—millions and millions of sparks, glistening
      vividly, showered down upon the scene of havoc;—for a moment—a single moment—the very heavens
      seemed on fire;—then all was black—and silent—and doubly sombre.  
  The den of the assassins had ceased to exist: it had been destroyed by gunpowder.  
  The blackened remains and dismembered relics of mortality were discovered on the following
      morning amongst the ruins, or in the immediate neighbourhood;—but it was impossible to
      ascertain how many persons had perished on this dread occasion.  
  
  CHAPTER LXVII. SCENES IN FASHIONABLE LIFE.  
  TWO months elapsed from the date of the preceding event.  
  It was now the commencement of March; and bleak winds had succeeded the hoary snows of
      winter.  
  The scene changes to the house of Sir Rupert Harborough, in Tavistock Square.  
  It was about one o'clock in the afternoon. The baronet was pacing the drawing-room with
      uneven steps, while Lady Cecilia lounged upon the sofa, turning over the pages of a new
      novel.  
  "Now this is most provoking, Cecilia," exclaimed the baronet: "I never was so much in want
      of money in my life; and you refuse to adopt the only means which——"  
  "Yes, Sir Rupert," interrupted the lady impatiently; "I refuse to give you my diamonds to
      pledge again—and all your arguments shall never persuade me to do so."  
  "Your heart is too good, Cecilia——"  
  "Oh! yes—you may try what coaxing will do; but I can assure you that I am proof against both
      honied and bitter words. Neither will serve your turn now."  
  "And yet, somehow or another, you   have   the command of money, Cecilia," resumed the
      baronet, after a pause. "You paid all the tradesmen's bills and servants' wages about two
      months ago: you found out—though God only knows how—that Greenwood had the duplicate of your
      diamonds;—you redeemed the ticket from him, and the jewels themselves from V——'s; and from
      that moment you have never seemed embarrassed for a five-pound note."  
  "All   that   is perfectly true, Sir Rupert," said Lady Cecilia, blushing slightly, and
      yet smiling archly,—and never did she seem more beautiful than when the glow of shame thus
      mantled her cheek and poured flood of light into those eyes that were so expressive of a
      voluptuous and sensual nature.  
  "Well, then," continued the baronet, "if you can thus obtain supplies for yourself, surely
      you can do something in the same way for me."  
  "I have no ready money at present," said Lady Cecilia; "and I have determined not to part
      with my jewels. There!"  
  "Perhaps you think that I am fool enough to be the dupe of your miserable and flimsy
      artifices, Cecilia?" cried the baronet impatiently: "but I can tell you that I have seen
      through them all along."  
  "You!" ejaculated the lady, starting uneasily, while her heart palpitated violently, and she
      felt that her cheeks were crimson.  
  "Yes—I, Lady Cecilia," answered the baronet. "I am not quite such a fool as you take me
      for."  
  "My God, Sir Rupert! what—how—who——-" stammered the guilty wife, a cold tremor pervading
      every limb, although her cheeks appeared to be on fire.  
  "There! you see that all my suspicions are confirmed," cried the baronet; "your confusion
      proves it."  
  "You cannot say that—that—I have ever given you any cause, Sir Rupert——"  
  "What? to doubt your word? Oh! no—I can't say that you are in the habit of telling
      falsehoods generally; but——"  
  "Sir Rupert!"  
  "Nay—I will speak out! The fact is, you pretend to have quarrelled with Lady Tremordyn; and
      it is all nonsense. Your mother supplies you with as much money as you require—and that is the
      secret!"  
  "Oh! Sir Rupert—Sir Rupert!" exclaimed Lady Cecilia, suddenly relieved from a most painful
      state of apprehension, and now comprehending the error under which he was labouring.  
  "You cannot deny what I affirm, Cecilia. And now that I bethink me, it is most probable that
      Greenwood himself told Lord Tremordyn (with whom he was intimate at that time, although they
      have since quarrelled, God only knows what about) of my having placed the duplicate of the
      diamonds in his hands, and so your father arranged that matter with Greenwood. It is a gross
      system of duplicity, Cecilia—a gross system; a pretended quarrel merely to prevent me from
      visiting at the house of my father-in-law. But, by God! I will stand it no longer!"  
  "What will you do, then?" demanded Lady Cecilia, ironically.  
  "What will I do? I will go straight off to Lord and Lady Tremordyn, and tell them my
      mind."  
  "And Lord and Lady Tremordyn will tell you theirs in return."  
  "And what can they say, madam, against me?"  
  "Nay—Sir Rupert, rather ask what they can say for you."  
   even prudently, in allowing their son-in-law to live by his wits and be
      compelled to raise money where he can."  
  "And they will tell you in reply, that you did not act honourably nor prudently to squander
      the large sum they gave you when you married their daughter."  
  "The devil they will!" exclaimed the baronet. "Then, in that case, I shall remind them of
      the consideration for which the large sum you allude to was given."  
  "Monster—coward!" cried Lady Cecilia: "do you dare to throw in my teeth the weakness of
      which I was guilty through excess of love for you?"  
  "I am sure you need not be so fastidious, Cecilia. To talk of love now, between a man of the
      world like me and a woman of the world like you, is an absurdity;—and as for the little
      weakness of which you speak, I repaired it."  
  "Yes," said the lady, bitterly. "When you saw me kneeling in despair at your feet—and when
      my mother implored you to save her daughter's honour, you turned a deaf ear to our
      entreaties—you scorned our prayers: but when my father offered a golden argument——"  
  "Lady Cecilia—silence, I command you!"  
  "When he offered a golden argument, I say," continued the lady, with withering scorn, "—when
      he produced his cheque-book, Sir Rupert Harborough pretended to yield to my entreaties; and as
      he raised me from the ground—condescendingly raised me—me, the daughter of a peer—with one
      hand,—with the other he clutched the bribe! Ah! Sir Rupert—you spoilt a good heart—you
      trampled a confiding disposition in the dust—when you would not allow yourself to be purchased
      by my love, but still consented to sell yourself to me for my father's gold! Oh! it was the
      vile instance of a man prostituting himself for gain, as poor weak woman has so often been
      doomed to do!"  
  "Lady Cecilia—I am astonished—I am amazed at the terms in which you allow yourself to
      address me!" said Sir Rupert Harborough, humiliated and put to shame by these words of keenly
      cutting satire.  
  "And now," continued the indignant lady,—"now you solicit me to ruin myself for you—to part
      with my very ornaments to supply your extravagances,—you, who had no pity upon my tears, no
      feeling for my anguish, no respect for my honour! No, Sir Rupert Harborough: I have assisted
      you once—assisted you twice—assisted you thrice—assisted you a hundred times already; and what
      return have you made me? When you are penniless, you remain at home: when you are in the
      possession of funds, you remain absent for weeks and weeks together. You may love me no
      longer, it is true;—and, with regard to myself, I confess that your conduct has long—long ago
      destroyed all the romance of affection in my bosom. Still a woman cannot endure neglect—at
      least I thought so a few months ago;—but now—  now,  " she added emphatically, as her
      thoughts wandered to Greenwood, "I am indifferent alike as to your attention or your
      neglect!"  
  "At least, Lady Cecilia, you are candid and explicit," said Sir Rupert, biting his lips.
      "But perhaps you have something more to observe."  
  "No—nothing," answered the lady coldly; and, with these words, she rose and left the
      room.  
  Not many minutes had elapsed since the termination of this "scene," when Mr. Chichester was
      announced.  
  "Well, what news with the old man?" demanded the baronet hastily.  
  "My father will not advance me another shilling until June," answered Chichester, throwing
      himself upon the sofa; "and as for your bill—he won't look at it. Any thing good with
      you?"  
  "Nothing. Lady Cecilia positively refuses to part with the jewels again," said the baronet,
      stamping his foot with rage.  
  "And can't you——"  
  "Can't I what?"  
  "Can't you help yourself to them in spite of her?" demanded Chichester.  
  "Impossible!" returned Harborough. "She keeps them under lock and key in her own room; and
      the door of that room she always locks when she goes out."  
  "How provoking! If we only had some ready money at this moment," observed Chichester, "we
      might make a little fortune."  
  "Yes—town is full—and such opportunities as we might have! By Jove, we   must   raise
      the wine somewhere."  
  "You do not think that Greenwood——"  
  "Oh! no—not for a moment!" cried the baronet, turning very pale as the idea of the forged
      acceptance of Lord Tremordyn, which would be due in another month, flashed across his mind:
      "no—I cannot apply to Greenwood for a shilling."  
  "And after all the pains I have taken in perfecting you in the new dodges with the cards and
      dice, ready for this season," said Mr. Chichester, in a most lachrymose tone; then, taking a
      small parcel from his pocket, he continued, "Here are the implements we want, too: every thing
      prepared—except the money."  
  "Ah!" exclaimed the baronet, "you have got the things, then, at last?"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Yes," returned Chichester, opening the parcel and displaying its contents upon the table.
      "Here are the   scratched dice,   you see. These must be used upon a bare table, because
      it is necessary to judge by the sound of the dice in the box whether they are on the scratched
      side or not. You understand that a hole has been drilled in the centre pip of the five in this
      die, and in the ace of the other; a piece of ebony is then inserted, with a very small portion
      projecting. These dice cannot, therefore, fall perfectly flat, when the five side of the one
      and the ace of the other are underneath on the table; and it is very easy for the thrower just
      to move the box the least thing before he lifts it, to that the sound may tell him whether the
      scratched side is down or not. But you are to recollect that a man must be very drunk when you
      can use them with any degree of safety."  
  "I should think so, indeed," said Sir Rupert.  
  "I can assure you that no implements of our craft are, on certain occasions, more
      destructive than these," observed Chichester.  
  "And what is the use of these slight scratches upon the dice?"  
   Don't you see that when fair dice are used, you must introduce an unfair box.
      Many a greenhorn may have heard of loaded dice, and so on; but very few know that there is
      such a thing as the   Doctor Dice-box  . Honour to the man, say I, who invented it. If
      you judge by the outside of this box, it is a very fair-looking one; but just put your finger
      into it, and you will feel that no less than three-quarters of the inside are filled up, so
      that there is now only just space enough left in the middle for the dice to fit in. Towards
      the top the sides grow larger and smoother. The dice, you see, rattle by rising up and down,
      when shaken briskly, but do not change their position. All that you have to do is to put them
      in, in the first instance, with a view to the way in which you want them to come up."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "So that if you want to throw a six and a five, put the dice into the box with the ace and
      the two uppermost," said the baronet.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Precisely," answered Chichester. "A fair box, you know as well as I do, has one or more
      rims inside, against which the dice must turn in coming out."  
  "By the bye," said the baronet, "what is the   Gradus  , Chichester? you promised to
      show me a great many times, and have forgotten it; but now that we are upon the subject, you
      may as well enlighten me."  
  "Certainly, my dear fellow," returned this very complacent Mentor; then, taking up a pack of
      cards, he said, "nothing is more easy than the   Gradus,   or   Step  . It is often
      much safer than   Bridging  , too.   Bridging   is known by every snob about town
      who pretends to set up for a   Greek   All that you have to do for the   Gradus   is to let any particular card
      you fancy project a little in this way, so as to make sure that your opponent will turn it up,
      at whist or ecarté, as the case may be."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Excellent! I like the plan better than any other you ever yet showed me for effecting the
      same object."  
  "  Palming   may sometimes be done successfully," continued Chichester: "but you must
      have the small French cards to do it. There—all that there is to do is to secrete a particular
      card under the palm and partially up the sleeve till it is required. When your opponent is
      well primed, you can easily introduce   a fifth king  , or   fifth ace  , in this
      way. There is a great deal of art, too, in shuffling, or   Weaving  . At ecarté or whist,
      always watch which tricks taken up have the best cards; then, when you take up all the cards
      to shuffle them again,   weave   in the good tricks to suit your purposes."  
  "I heard a gentleman say the other night," observed the baronet, "that he had been most
      gloriously fleeced by a fellow who used   pricked cards  ."  
  "Ah! they are capital weapons," exclaimed Chichester. "Just lay the high cards flat on their
      backs, and then prick them with a very fine needle, so as to raise the slightest possible
      pimple in the world upon the backs down in one of the corners; but mind, the cards are not to
      be punctured quite through. The fellow who told me how to do this dodge, used some chemical
      preparation to the ball of his thumb, which made that part almost raw, and consequently so
      very sensitive that he could feel the smallest possible pimple on the card with the greatest
      ease."  
  "And what have you got there?" demanded Sir Rupert, pointing to a pack of cards which
      Chichester had just taken from his parcel.  
  "These are   Reflectors  ," replied the Mentor. "They are French cards, you perceive,
      and are only manufactured in France. They cost two guineas a pack; but then—only think of
      their utility! Look at the backs of these cards: instead of being plain, they are figured. Now
      this to a common observer is nothing, most of the French cards being, you know, variegated
      with flowers or other designs at the back. But to the initiated, the lines upon these cards
      are every thing. Mark how they run. All the high cards have semicircles in the corners, while
      all the low cards have the ends of the lines meeting in the corners. Then, by a more minute
      study still of these cards, it is easy to know kings, queens, knaves, and aces, by the manner
      in which the lines run upon the back. I hope these weapons are dangerous enough for you."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "They are decidedly the most efficient I have yet seen," answered the baronet. "I think we
      now know all the mysteries of the gaming world; and, considering how many   flats   there
      are in London and the watering places, it would be astonishing indeed if we could not pick up
      a handsome living."  
  "Of course it would," said Mr. Chichester. "The mania for play is most extraordinary. The
      moment a young man enters upon life, he fancies that it is very fine to frequent
      gambling-houses or lose his loose gold at private play: indeed he imagines that he cannot be a
         man of the world   without it. There is our advantage. That anxiety to be looked upon
      as   a fine dashing fellow   is the real cause of the immense increase of gaming
      propensities. Young men do not begin to play in the first instance because they like it: they
      commence, simply to gratify their vanity; and then they imbibe the taste and acquire the
      habit. What they began through pride, they continue through love. There, again, I say, is our
      pull:—there always will be flats ready to throw themselves head and shoulders into the nets
      that sharps spread out for them."  
  "All that is very true, Chichester," said the baronet. "But we don't want a homily on the
      vice of gambling this afternoon: what we require is the needful to enable us to put our plans
      into execution. The old tricks that you taught me more than three years ago in that very
      respectable lodging which you occupied in Bartholomew Close, are well-nigh worn out: we have
      now studied fresh ones;—but we are totally deficient in the steam to set our new engines in
      motion."  
  Chichester was about to reply when a carriage drove up to the front door, and Mr. Greenwood
      alighted.  
  
  CHAPTER LXVIII. THE ELECTION.  
  "Well—it is all right!" exclaimed Mr. Greenwood, the moment he entered the drawing-room, his
      countenance radiant with joy, and his eyes expressive of triumph.  
  "What is all right?" demanded both the baronet and Chichester in the same breath.  
  "Why—have you not heard that the election for Rottenborough took place yesterday?" said
      Greenwood.  
  "Oh! to be sure—I forgot that!" observed the baronet. "But you surely never have beaten Lord
      Tremordyn's candidate?"  
  "Yes—I was returned triumphantly—814 against 102," said Greenwood.  
  "I wish you joy, my dear fellow," exclaimed Chichester. "I suppose you astonished the
      natives of Rottenborough? but how the devil did you manage this victory?"  
   that time very intimate with Lord Tremordyn, your worthy and much revered
      father-in-law, Sir Rupert——"  
  "Ah! worthy, indeed!" ejaculated the baronet impatiently.  
  "I accordingly spoke to Lord Tremordyn," continued Greenwood; "and, after a little delicate
      manœuvring, received his promise to support me,—in fact, to get me in for Rottenborough. It
      had been arranged that Count Alteroni and his family were to pass the month of January and a
      portion of February with Lord and Lady Tremordyn; but in the mean time, the count learned
      something about me, as I before told you, which he did not like; and he rejected me as a
      suitor for his daughter's hand. That did not grieve me much. My only motives for making up to
      the signora at all were, because I really liked the girl, and because she is a nobleman's
      daughter. But the count did not stop there. He sent an apology to Lord and Lady Tremordyn, and
      declined the invitation. Off goes his lordship to Richmond, and calls upon the count. The
      count spoke so ill of me, it appears, that his lordship determined to cut me. There seemed at
      first an insurmountable obstacle to my hopes relative to Rottenborough."  
  "Yes—but you are never dismayed at any thing," said Chichester.  
  "Never. There is no such word as   impossible   in my vocabulary," returned Greenwood;
      "and as for   improbable  —that is a word which can only intimidate cowards. I made up my
      mind to exert all my energies to obtain the gratification of my wishes. I had set my mind upon
      becoming an M.P. I had dreamt of it—thought upon it for hours together—and had even based
      certain calculations and schemes upon the event. I was not to be disappointed. I immediately
      went down to Rottenborough, and put up at the principal inn. I looked about me for a day or
      two, and at length saw something that suited me—an old mansion in such a ruined and
      dilapidated state, that it would require three or four thousand pounds to restore it to a
      habitable and comfortable condition. It belonged to the banker of the place. I bought it
      without haggling, and thus made a friend of him. I then set all the masons, carpenters,
      decorators, and upholsterers in the place to work, paid a considerable sum into the banker's
      hands, and appointed the head solicitor in the town to be my agent. I moreover gave him
      certain secret instructions relative to my ultimate views, and returned to London. Every
      Saturday I went down to Rottenborough—it is only twenty-four miles from London, you know—and
      paid all the bills without demanding discount. I also sent fifty pounds to the clergyman of
      the parish to lay out in purchasing blankets for the poor; and paid the coal merchant for
      fifty tons of coals also for charitable distribution. I always remained at Rottenborough until
      Monday mornings, and went to church three times on the Sundays. No one spoke the responses
      louder than I did—no one dwelt with such holy delight upon the clergyman's sermons as myself.
      I moreover won the hearts of the churchwardens, by placing a ten-pound note in the plate,
      after a charity sermon; and I secured the overseer by visiting the workhouse with him, tasting
      the soup, and pronouncing the dietary-scale to amount to absolute luxuries. In this manner, I
      was soon talked about. 'Who is this Mr. Greenwood?' was the universal question. 'A wealthy
      capitalist of London,' answered the lawyer. Thus, every thing progressed well."  
  "So I should imagine," observed the baronet.  
  "Well—parliament met—the representative of Rottenborough resigned his seat; and the next
      morning by eight o'clock, my lawyer-agent had secured every inn, tavern, and public-house in
      Rottenborough in my name. Placards were posted all over the town, announcing my intention to
      come forward in the liberal interest, Lord Tremordyn having always supported the opposite
      side. Down goes Lord Tremordyn with his candidate, and is quite astonished to see all the
      walls and houses covered with posters, on which the name of Greenwood appeared in
      monster-type. But if he were surprised at first, how much more was he compelled to marvel, and
      how deeply was he annoyed, when not an inn—not a tavern—not even a public-house, would receive
      him, or his horses. His lordship drove to the rector's. The parson 'was excessively glad to
      see his lordship, and hoped his lordship would make his (the rector's) house his home; but he
      (the rector) could not think of entertaining the Conservative candidate also, as he had
      promised his vote to a gentleman who intended to settle in the place, and who had already done
      a vast amount of good there.' Lord Tremordyn was astounded. He went to the banker's. Precisely
      the same answer. The brewer, the coal-merchant, the Chairman of the Board of Poor Law
      Guardians (who had heard that I admired the soup and considered gruel at nineteen out of
      twenty-one meals every week, to be actually encouraging in the poor a taste for luxuries) all
      spoke well of me. Lord Tremordyn grew livid with rage; and he was compelled to take up his
      quarters, with the new candidate, at the house of the undertaker, whose services I had
      neglected to secure, not having known upon what possible pretence to order a few coffins."  
  "Capital!" ejaculated Sir Rupert: "I am glad the old lord was taken in at last—he who
      fancied himself omnipotent at Rottenborough."  
  "Every engine of Tory tactics was now put into execution by Lord Tremordyn, his candidate,
      and his agents. All his tenants who had not paid up their arrears of rent, were menaced with
      executions and ejectments if they did not vote for the Conservative. My lawyer knew how to
      counteract this influence. He found out all the tenants who were in arrears, and proffered
      them loans payable at very distant dates. This accommodation was gladly accepted; and they
      were of course given to understand that the assistance emanated from me. 'At the same time,'
      said my lawyer, 'you must not think that this is a mere electioneering manœuvre to secure your
      support. No—remain free and independent electors. Mr. Greenwood's wishes and objects were
      merely to defeat tyranny and annihilate intimidation.' In this way we completely weaned his
      own tenants away from Lord Tremordyn and his cause."  
  "All this must have cost you a great deal of money," said Chichester.  
  "Not near so much as you would fancy. But, whatever it was, it was well spent. The position
      of an M.P. to me is worth thousands and thousands:—I know how to avail myself of it."  
  "I wish I had your head, Greenwood," exclaimed Sir Rupert Harborough, with a sigh.  
   the poor, will support the tradesmen, and will dwell during the recess amongst
      the inhabitants of Rottenborough. What good have the candidates of the Tremordyn interest ever
      done for ye, O Rottenboroughers? Has the present candidate an account at the banker's? has he
      given away blankets and coals wholesale? has he come regularly on Sunday to attend divine
      service in our parish church three times? has he employed the greater portion of the tradesmen
      of the town? No—he appears amongst you as a stranger—making fine promises, but having given an
      earnest of nothing. Look at Greenwood—a man of enormous wealth—known probity—vast
      experience—high character—splendid qualifications—unlimited charity—and undoubted piety.'"  
  "I suppose you wrote out all that for your canvassers?" said Chichester.  
  "No: my lawyer copied a character for me out of an old romance; and it seemed to be
      admirably appreciated. At length the eventful day—yesterday—came. You may depend upon it, I
      was up early. My band and colours commenced parading about the town at seven o'clock; and my
      lawyer had very prudently hired the clown and pantaloon of Richardson's Theatre to attend the
      band, and amuse the people with their antics during the intervals between the different airs.
      This told wonderfully well, and, as I afterwards learnt, won thirty-three votes away from Lord
      Tremordyn's candidate."  
  "A fact which speaks volumes in favour of the intellectual qualifications of the people of
      Rottenborough," observed the baronet.  
  "But the beauty of it was," continued Greenwood, "that my lawyer had the clown in the
      Guildhall, when my opponent addressed the electors; and the fellow imitated the gesticulations
      and the facial contortions of Lord Tremordyn's candidate so well, that the speech was drowned
      in roars of laughter."  
  "And I suppose that your speech was listened to with the greatest attention?" said
      Chichester.  
  "The very greatest," returned Greenwood; "and I can assure you that I pitched them the
      gammon in the very finest possible style. 'Gentlemen,' I said, 'it is well known that not a
      single town in this empire contains a more enlightened, intellectual, and independent
      population than Rottenborough. The inhabitants of Rottenborough are the envy of surrounding
      cities, and the admiration of the universe. History has ever been busy with the name of
      Rottenborough; and never has a gallant Rottenborougher disgraced his name, his country, or his
      cause. This is the chosen home of freedom: if you seek for independence, you will find it in
      the peaceful groves and delicious retreats of Rottenborough. Famous also is this town for the
      loveliness and virtue of its women; and beauteous and faithful wives make their husbands and
      sons good and great. Oh! supremely blessed is the town of Rottenborough, situate in its happy
      valley, and through whose streets sweep balmy gales, laden with perfume and delicious
      odour.'—At this moment, the voice of some purblind Tory exclaimed, 'What do you say to the
      putrid black ditch at the back of the church?' Of course one of my own supporters smashed this
      ruffian's hat over his eyes; and I then proceeded thus: 'Gentlemen, free and independent
      electors of Rottenborough! I offer myself as your representative! I throw myself into your
      arms! I undertake your cause! Tory influence has long blunted your energies: Tory machinations
      have for years dimmed the bright and brilliant intellects of the Rottenboroughers. Do you ask
      me what are my principles? I will tell you. I am a liberal in every sense of the word. I am
      anxious that every free and independent elector of Rottenborough shall have his beef and beer
      for nothing—which shall be the case to-morrow, if I am returned to-day. I am desirous that the
      industrious classes should be improved in condition—that they should have more food and less
      treadmill, and be supplied with flannel to expel the bleak and nipping cold of winter. This
      want it shall be my duty to supply. But that is not all: I hope to see the day arrive when
      every pauper in the workhouse at Rottenborough shall thank God for his happy condition, and
      receive an extra half ounce of bacon for the dinner of the Sabbath! These are my fond
      aspirations—these are my aims! If I seem to promise much—I am ready to perform it all. Trust
      me—try me—place me in a condition to be useful to you. I have now expounded to you all my
      views—I have laid bare my secret soul to your eyes; and heaven can attest the sincerity of my
      intentions. Under these circumstances I confidently claim your suffrage;—but if it should
      happen that I am disappointed—if I am forced to shut up the mansion which I have purchased in
      this neighbourhood, suspend all the works, and fly for ever from the peaceful retreats and
      delicious haunts of Rottenborough, I shall at least——.' Here it was arranged between my lawyer
      and me that my voice was to falter and that I should seem as if I was about to faint. I
      accordingly wound up the farce with a little bit of melodrama: and from that instant the cause
      of my opponent was desperate beyond all chances of redemption."  
  "You deserved success, after that brilliant speech;" said Chichester, laughing heartily at
      this narrative.  
  "The polling was continued briskly until four o'clock, when the mayor closed the books and
      announced that   George Greenwood, Esquire, Gentleman, was duly returned to serve in
       Parliament as the representative of Rottenborough  ."  
  "When shall you 'take your oaths and your seat,' as the papers say?" demanded
      Chichester.  
  "This evening," answered Greenwood.  
  "And of course you will range yourself amongst the liberals?"  
  "How can you fancy that I shall be guilty of such egregious folly?" cried the new Member of
      Parliament. "The reign of the Liberals is drawing to a close: a Tory administration within a
      year or eighteen months is inevitable."  
  "But you stood forward as a Liberal, and were returned as such."  
  "Very true—very true, my dear fellow. But do you imagine that I became a Member of
      Parliament to meet the interests and wishes of a pack of strangers, or to suit my own?"  
  "And at the next election——"  
  "I shall be returned again. Mark my word for that. A politician is not worth a fig who has
      not a dozen excuses ready for the most flagrant tergiversation; and money—money will purchase
      all the free and independent electors of Rottenborough."  
  Lady Cecilia Harborough returned to the drawing-room at this moment. She scarcely noticed
      Chichester—who was "her aversion"—but welcomed Greenwood in the most cordial manner. The
      baronet observed "that he should leave Mr. Greenwood to amuse Lady Cecilia with an account of
      his electioneering exploits;" and then withdrew, accompanied by his "shadow" Mr.
      Chichester.  
  "You have succeeded, George?" said Lady Cecilia, the moment they were alone together.  
   waist of the frail fair one, and drawing her close to him as they stood before
      the fire.  
  "I am delighted with this result," said Lady Cecilia; "although my own father has sustained
      a defeat in the person of his candidate."  
  "All fair in the political world, dear Cecilia," replied the new Member of Parliament. "But
      you have not yet appeared to understand that I came hither the moment I returned from
      Rottenborough,—to bear to you, first and foremost, the news of my success."  
  "Ah! dearest George, how can I ever sufficiently testify my gratitude to thee for all thy
      proofs of ardent love?" whispered Lady Cecilia, in a soft and melting tone.  
  "Yes—I love you—I love you well," answered Greenwood, who in a moment of tenderness declared
      with the lips far more than he really felt with the heart;—and he imprinted a thousand kisses
      upon her month, her cheeks, and her brow.  
  She returned them, while her countenance glowed with a deep crimson dye;—but neither the
      kisses nor the blushes were those of a pure and sacred affection; they were the offspring of a
      licentious and illicit flame.  
  A slight noise in the room startled the guilty pair.  
  They hastily withdrew from each other's embrace, and glanced around.  
  Mr. Chichester was advancing towards the table in the middle of the apartment.  
  Lady Cecilia uttered a faint cry, and sank upon the sofa.  
  "I beg you a thousand pardons," said Chichester, affecting the utmost indifference of
      manner; "but I had left this parcel behind me;"—— and, taking up the small package containing
      his dice and cards, he withdrew.  
  "Merciful heavens!" ejaculated Lady Cecilia: "we are discovered—we are betrayed! That wretch
      will ruin us!"  
  "Do not fear—do not alarm yourself, sweetest lady," returned Greenwood: "I will undertake to
      stop that man's mouth! One moment—and I return."  
  He hurried after Mr. Chichester, whom he overtook half-way down the stairs.  
  "Chichester, one word with you," said Greenwood.  
  "A dozen, if you like, my dear fellow."  
  "You came into the drawing-room a minute ago—unexpectedly——"  
  "And I apologised for my rudeness."  
  "Yes—but you are not the less possessed of a secret which involves the honour of a lady—the
      happiness of an entire family——"  
  "Greenwood, I am a man of the world: you can rely upon me," interrupted Chichester. "Fear
      nothing on that score. You have now asked your favour, and obtained it of me: let me request
      one of you."  
  "Command me in any way you choose."  
  "I am at this moment embarrassed for a hundred pounds or so——"  
  "Say no more: they are yours," returned Greenwood; and he forthwith handed a bank-note for
      the amount mentioned, to Mr. Chichester.  
  "Thank you," said that individual; and he hastened to rejoin the baronet, who was waiting
      for him in the square.  
  "Well—have you found your implements?" said Sir Rupert, as he took his friend's arm.  
  "Yes—and a hundred pounds into the bargain," returned Chichester, drily.  
  "A hundred pounds! Impossible!"  
  "There is the bank-note. It is just what we required."  
  "But how——"  
  "Greenwood was coming down stairs, and I mustered up courage to ask him for a loan. He
      complied without a moment's hesitation. Indeed," added Chichester, with a sneer, "I almost
      think that I shall be enabled, in case of emergency, to obtain another supply from the same
      quarter."  
  "This is fortunate—most fortunate!" exclaimed Harborough. "Let us go and dine at Long's or
      Stephen's this evening, and see if we can pick up a flat."  
  
  CHAPTER LXIX. THE "WHIPPERS-IN."  
  HAVING reassured Lady Cecilia Harborough relative to the alarm inspired by the intrusion of
      Chichester at so critical a moment, Mr. Greenwood returned to his own residence in Spring
      Gardens.  
  "Any one called, Lafleur?" he said to his favourite valet, as he ascended to his study.  
  "Two gentlemen; sir. Their cards are upon your desk. They both declared that they would call
      again to day."  
  Mr. Greenwood hastened to inspect the cards of his two visitors. One contained the following
      name and address:—  
    The Hon. V. W. Y. Sawder, M.P.    
    Reform-Club  .  
  The other presented the annexed superscription to view:—  
    Sir T. M. B. Muzzlehem, Bart., M.P.    
    Carlton-Club  .  
  "Ah! ha!" exclaimed Mr. Greenwood, chuckling audibly: "I understand what this means! Already
      at work, eh? No time to be lost, I see." Then turning towards Lafleur, he added, "You see, my
      good fellow, that when a man like me—a man of—of—consideration, in a word—becomes entrusted
      with the interests of a free, enlightened, and independent constituency, like that of
      Rottenborough, the Ministerial party and the Opposition each endeavour to secure me to their
      cause—you understand, Lafleur—eh?"  
  "Perfectly, sir," answered the imperturbable valet, with his usual bow.  
  "Well, then, Lafleur," continued Mr. Greenwood, "you must know farther that each party has
      its whipper-in. The whippers-in keep lists of those who belong respectively to their own
      parties, and collect them together when their support is absolutely necessary on a division of
      the House. In fact, the whippers-in are the huntsmen of the pack: and the members all collect
      at the sound of their bugles. Do you comprehend, Lafleur?"  
  "Yes, sir—thank you, sir."  
  "I must therefore see both these gentlemen—but separately, mind. If they should happen to
      call at the same time, show one into the drawing-room while I receive the other here."  
    
  "And now, Lafleur," proceeded Mr. Greenwood, "while we are upon the subject, I may as well
      give you a few instructions relative to that deportment which my altered position renders
      necessary."  
  Lafleur bowed.  
  "Placed in a situation of high responsibility and trust, by the confidence of an intelligent
      and enlightened constituency," resumed Mr. Greenwood, "I am bound to maintain a position which
      may inspire respect and confidence. In the first place, as it cannot be supposed that I shall
      receive many epistolary communications until my opinions upon particular measures and
      questions become known through my parliamentary conduct,—and as, at the same time, it would be
      disgraceful for the neighbourhood to imagine that my correspondence is limited, you must take
      care that the two-penny postman never passes my door without leaving a letter."  
  "Yes, sir. I will have a letter, addressed to you, posted every two hours, sir, so that you
      cannot fail to receive one by each delivery."  
  "Good, Lafleur; and you can tell the postman," added Mr. Greenwood, "to knock louder than he
      has been in the habit of doing——"  
  "Yes, sir; because it is difficult to hear from the servants' offices."  
  "Precisely, Lafleur. And you can tell our newsman to bring me all the   second
       editions   of the newspapers whenever there are any; and mind you always keep the news-boy
      waiting a long time at the door. Tell him, moreover, to bawl out '  second edition  ' of
      whatever paper it may be, as loud as he can."  
  "I will take care he shall do so, sir," answered Lafleur.  
  "And once a week, or so," proceeded Greenwood, after a pause, "let an express-courier gallop
      at full speed up to the house, and ring and knock furiously until the door is opened. But,
      mind that he comes from at least three or four miles distant, so that his horse may be covered
      with foam, and himself with mud or dust, according to the state of the weather."  
  "I understand, sir."  
  "Moreover, Lafleur, at least three or four times a week, go to Leadenhall Market and
      purchase the game and poultry which we may require for the house, and send it home by the
      London Parcels Delivery Company, so that the neighbours may say, '  More presents for Mr.
       Greenwood. Dear me! how popular he must be with his constituents!  '"  
  "I fully comprehend, sir."  
  "You can send fish home, too,—and haunches of venison in the same manner," continued the new
      Member of Parliament; "but mind that the feathers of the pheasants, the tails of the fish, and
      the feet of the haunches always hang out of the baskets in which they are packed."  
  "Oh! certainly, sir."  
  "If you could possibly get a charity-school to wait upon me some morning, to solicit me to
      become a patron, or any thing of that sort, it would do good, and I should make a handsome
      donation to the funds."  
  "That can be managed, sir. I can safely promise that seventy boys and ninety girls shall
      wait upon you in procession any day you choose to appoint."  
  "Well and good, Lafleur. And mind that they are kept standing for three quarters of an hour
      in the street before they are admitted."  
  "As a matter of course, sir."  
  "And now I will just mention a few things," continued Mr. Greenwood, "that you most manage
      with very great nicety. Indeed, I know I can rely upon you in every thing."  
  Lafleur bowed.  
  "You must turn away all Italian organ-players. The moment one shows himself under our
      windows, let one of the footmen rush out and order him off. It is not proper to encourage such
      vagabonds: the aristocracy don't like them."  
  "Certainly not, sir."  
  "Organ-playing is a thing I am determined to put an end to. There is also the hoop nuisance.
      Give any boy into charge, whatever may be his age, who is caught trundling a hoop in Spring
      Gardens. That is another thing I am resolved to put an end to. Ballad-singers and broom-girls
      you will of course have taken into custody without hesitation. In fact you had better give the
      policeman upon the beat general instructions upon this head; and you can slip a guinea into
      his hand at the same time."  
  "Very good, sir."  
  "At the same time we must be charitable, Lafleur—we must be charitable."  
  "Decidedly, sir."  
  "You must find out some decent woman with half a dozen children, to whom the broken victuals
      can be given every day at about three o'clock, when there are plenty of people in the
      street;—a woman who does not exactly want the food, but who will not refuse it. The
      respectability of her appearance will be set down to my benevolence, Lafleur; and she must be
      careful always to come with her children. By these means we shall gain the reputation of being
      judiciously particular in respect to vagabonds and impostors, but charitable in the extreme to
      the deserving poor."  
  "Just so, sir."  
  "One word more, Lafleur. When any person calls whom you know I do not want to see, say,
       '  Mr. Greenwood is engaged with a deputation from his constituents  ;' or else,
       '  Mr. Greenwood has just received very important dispatches, and cannot be
      disturbed  ;'—or, again, '  Mr. Greenwood has just stepped down as far as the Home
       Office  .' You fully comprehend."  
  "Perfectly, sir."  
  "Then you may retire, Lafleur. But—by the bye—Lafleur!"  
  "Yes, sir?"  
  "I shall add twenty guineas a year to your wages from this date, Lafleur," said Mr.
      Greenwood.  
  "Thank you, sir," answered the valet; and, with a low bow, he retired.  
   But what of that? I stood forward as a candidate to suit myself, and not for the
      sake of the free and independent electors of Rottenborough! Yes, all goes well with me! An
      occasional annoyance—such as my failure in obtaining possession of the person of Eliza Sydney,
      and of the hand of Isabella, the lovely Italian—cannot be avoided;—but in all great points—in
      all my important views, I am successful! And yet, Isabella—Isabella! Upon her the eye that is
      wearied with the contemplation of the rude and discordant scenes of life, could rest—could
      rest with unfeigned, with ineffable delight! O Isabella, there are times when thine image
      comes before me, like the vision of a holy and chaste Madonna to the sleep-bound mind of the
      pious Catholic;—and there have been solitary hours in which the whole earth has seemed to me
      to be covered with flowers beneath the sweet sunlight of thine eyes! And yet—who knows? The
      day may come when even thou shalt be mine! I longed to languish in the arms of Diana
      Arlington;—and I had my wish. I coveted the patrician loveliness of Cecilia Harborough;—and,
      behold! my wealth purchased it. I sought for change; and accident—a strange
      accident—surrendered to my embraces   another  —yes,   another  —whom I have never
      seen since that day—now more than two months ago,—but who, I have since learnt through the
      medium of my faithful Lafleur, dwells in the same house with—"  
  Mr. Greenwood's reverie was interrupted by the entrance of his valet, who introduced the
      Honourable Mr. Sawder into the study. The new Member of Parliament received the Whig
      whipper-in with his usual courtesy of manner; and, when they were both seated, Mr. Sawder
      felicitated Mr. Greenwood upon the successful result of the Rottenborough election.  
  "The liberal cause triumphed most signally," said Mr. Sawder: "the result was hailed with
      enthusiasm at the Reform Club, I can assure you."  
  "I have no doubt," answered Mr. Greenwood, already adopting the method of evasion so much in
      vogue amongst diplomatic and political circles,—"I have no doubt that every true lover of his
      country must be rejoiced at the victory achieved by straightforward conduct over the system of
      bribery, intimidation, and corruption practised by the nominee of Lord Tremordyn and his
      agents."  
  "Oh! certainly—certainly," returned Mr. Sawder. "The object of my present visit is to
      ascertain whether you will permit me to introduce you to the House this evening?"  
  "It is my intention to take the oaths and my seat this evening," answered Mr. Greenwood.  
  "And my services as   chaperon  —"  
  "You really confer a great honour upon me."  
  "Then I may consider that you accept—"  
  "My dear sir, how can I sufficiently thank you for this kind interest which you take in my
      behalf?"  
  "Pray do not mention it, Mr. Greenwood."  
  "No, Mr. Sawder, I will not allude to it; since it is the more to be appreciated, inasmuch
      as I never had the pleasure of being known to you previous to this occasion."  
  "I am therefore to understand," said the whipper-in, who could not precisely fathom the new
      member through the depths of these ambiguous phrases, "that you will allow me the honour of
      introducing you—"  
  "The honour, my dear sir, would be with me," observed Mr. Greenwood, with a gracious
      bow.  
  "At what hour, then, will you be prepared—"  
  "My time shall henceforth always be devoted to the interests of my constituents."  
  "A very noble sentiment, my dear Mr. Greenwood," said the whipper-in. "Shall we then fix the
      ceremony for five o'clock?"  
  "Five o'clock is an excellent hour, Mr. Sawder—an excellent hour. I know no hour that I like
      more than five o'clock," exclaimed Mr. Greenwood.  
  "Be it five, then," said the whipper-in. "And now, relative to the Reform club—when will it
      please you to be proposed a member?"  
  "It will please me, my dear sir, at any time, to join that fraternity of honourable
      gentlemen with whom I shall in future co-operate."  
  "Well and good, my dear sir," said Mr. Sawder; and he slowly and reluctantly took his leave,
      not knowing what to make of the new member for Rottenborough, nor whether to calculate upon
      his adhesion to the Whig cause, or not.  
  Scarcely had the Honourable Mr. V. W. Y. Sawder, M. P., driven away in his beautiful
      cabriolet from Mr. Greenwood's door, when Sir T. M. B. Muzzlehem, Bart., M. P. arrived in his
      brougham at the same point. But if Mr. Greenwood were evasive and ambiguous to the Whig
      whipper-in, he was clear and lucid to the Tory one.  
  Sir T. Muzzlehem began by felicitating him upon his election, and in a verbose harangue,
      expressed his hopes that Mr. Greenwood would support that cause "the object of which was to
      maintain the glorious old constitution inviolate, and uphold the Established Church in its
      unity and integrity."  
  "Those are precisely my intentions," said Mr. Greenwood.  
  "I am delighted to hear you say so, my dear sir," resumed the Tory whipper-in; "but I have
      one deep cause of uneasiness, which is that you may not entertain precisely the same views of
      what is necessary to maintain these honourable and ancient institutions, as the men who would
      gladly lay down their lives to benefit their country."  
  "I believe, Sir Thomas Muzzlehem," answered Mr. Greenwood, "that I shall act according to
      the wishes of my constituents, the dictates of my own conscience, and the views of the
      illustrious men of whom you speak."  
  "In which case, my dear Mr. Greenwood, I am of course to understand that you will be one of
         us  —one of the true defenders of the Throne, the Constitution, and the Church—"  
  "In other words, a Conservative," added Mr. Greenwood.  
  "Bravo!" ejaculated the whipper-in, unable to conceal his joy at this unexpected result of a
      visit whose object he had at first deemed certain of defeat: then, shaking Mr. Greenwood
      heartily by the hand, he said, "At what hour shall I have the pleasure of introducing you this
      evening?"  
  "At a quarter to five precisely," replied Mr. Greenwood.  
  "And of course you will become a member of the Carlton?" added the whipper-in.  
  "Of course—whenever you choose—as early as possible," said Mr. Greenwood.  
  Sir Thomas Muzzlehem again wrung the hand of the new member, and then took his leave.  
  The moment he had departed, Lafleur repaired to the study, and said, "A lady, sir, is
      waiting to see you in the drawing-room."  
  "A lady!" ejaculated Mr. Greenwood: "who is she?"  
  "I do not know, sir. She refused to give me her name; and I have never seen her before."  
  "How did she come?"  
   and yet her manners seem to indicate that she is a lady."  
  "Strange! who can she be?" murmured Greenwood, as he hastened to the drawing-room.  
  
  CHAPTER LXX. THE IMAGE, THE PICTURE, AND THE STATUE.  
  UPON the sofa in Mr. Greenwood's elegantly-furnished drawing-room was seated the young lady
      who so anxiously sought an interview with the owner of that princely mansion.  
  Her face was very pale: a profound melancholy reigned upon her countenance, and was even
      discernible in her drooping attitude; her eyes expressed a sorrow bordering upon anguish; and
      yet, through that veil of dark foreboding, the acute observer might have seen a ray—a feeble
      ray of hope gleaming faintly, so faintly, that it appeared a flickering lamp burning at the
      end of a long and gloomy cavern.  
  Her elbow rested upon one end of the sofa, and her forehead was supported upon her hand,
      when Greenwood entered the room.  
  The doors of that luxurious dwelling moved so noiselessly upon their hinges, and the carpets
      spread upon the floors were so thick, that not a sound, either of door or footstep, announced
      to that pale and mournful girl the approach of the man whom she so deeply longed to see.  
  He was close by her ere she was aware of his presence.  
  With a start, she raised her head, and gazed steadfastly up into his countenance; but her
      tongue clave to the roof of her mouth, and refused utterance to the name which she would have
      spoken.  
  "Ellen!" ejaculated Greenwood, as his eyes met hers.—"what has brought you hither?"  
  "Can you not imagine it possible that I should wish to see you again?" answered Miss
      Monroe—for she was Mr. Greenwood's visitor upon the present occasion.  
  "But why so much mystery, Ellen? why refuse to give the servant your name? why adopt a
      course which cannot fail to render your visit a matter of suspicion to my household?" said
      Greenwood, somewhat impatiently.  
  "Forgive me—forgive me, if I have done wrong," exclaimed Ellen, the tears gushing to her
      eyes. "Alas! misfortunes have rendered me so suspicious of human nature, that I feared—I
      feared lest you should refuse to see me—that you would consider me importunate—"  
  "Well—well, Ellen: do not cry—that is foolish! I am not angry now; so cheer up, and tell me
      in what I can serve thee?"  
  As Greenwood uttered these words, he seated himself upon the sofa by the side of the young
      lady, and took her hand. We cannot say that her tears had moved him—for his was a heart that
      was moved by nothing regarding another: but she had looked pretty as she wept, and as her eyes
      glanced through their tears towards him; and the apparent kindness of his manner was the
      mechanical impulse of the libertine.  
  "Oh! if   you   would only smile thus upon me—now and then—" murmured Ellen, gazing
      tenderly upon him,—"how much of the sorrow of this life would disappear from before my
      eyes."  
  "How can one gifted with such charms as you be unhappy?" exclaimed Greenwood.  
  "What! do you imagine that beauty constitutes felicity?" cried Ellen, in an impassioned
      tone. "Are not the loveliest flowers exposed to the nipping frosts, as well as the rank and
      poisonous weeds? Do not clouds obscure the brightest stars, as well as those of a pale and
      sickly lustre? You ask me if I can be unhappy? Alas! it is now long—long since I knew what
      perfect happiness was! I need not tell you—  you  —how my father's fortune was swept
      away;—but I may detail to you the miseries which the loss of it raised up around him and
      me—and chiefly   me  !"  
  "But why dwell upon so sad a theme, Ellen? Did you come hither to divert me with a narrative
      of sorrows which must now be past, since—according to what I have heard—your father and
      yourself have found an asylum—"  
  "At Markham Place!" added Miss Monroe, emphatically. "Yes—we have found an asylum
       there—  there  , in the house of the individual whom my father's speculations and your
      agency—"  
  "Speak not of that—speak not of that, I conjure you!" hastily exclaimed Greenwood. "Tell me
      Ellen—tell me, you have not breathed a word to your father, nor to that young man—"  
  "No—not for worlds!" cried Ellen, with a shudder: then, after a pause, during which she
      appeared to reflect deeply, she said, "But you ask me why I wish to narrate to you the history
      of all the miseries I have endured for two long years, and upwards: you demand of me why I
      would dwell upon so sad a theme. I will tell you presently. You shall hear me first. But pray,
      be not impatient: I shall not detain you long;—and, surely—surely, you can spare an hour to
      one who is so very—very miserable."  
  "Speak, Ellen—speak!"  
  "The loss of our fortune plunged us into the most frightful poverty. We were not let down
      gradually from affluence to penury;—but we fell—as one falls from a height—abruptly, suddenly,
      and precipitately into the depths of want and starvation. The tree of our happiness lost not
      its foliage leaf by leaf: it was blighted in an hour. This made the sting so much more
      sharp—the heavy weight of misfortune so much less tolerable. Nevertheless, I worked, and
      worked with my needle until my energies were wasted, my eyes grew dim, and my health was
      sinking fast. Oh! my God, I only asked for work;—and yet, at length, I lost even that
      resource! Then commenced a strange kind of life for me."  
  "A strange kind of life, Ellen—what mean you?" exclaimed Greenwood, now interested in the
      recital.  
  "I sold myself in detail," answered Ellen, in a tone of the deepest and most touching
      melancholy.  
  "I cannot understand you," cried Greenwood. "Surely—surely your mind is not wandering!"  
  "No: all I tell you is unhappily too true," returned the poor girl, shaking her head; then,
      as if suddenly recollecting herself, she started from her thoughtful mood, and said, "You have
      a plaster of Paris image as large as life, in the window of your staircase?"  
  "Yes—it is a Diana, and holds a lamp which is lighted at night," observed Greenwood. "But
      what means that strange question—so irrelevant to the subject of our discourse?"  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Greenwood gazed upon her in speechless astonishment: he fancied that her reason was
      unhinged; and—he knew not why—he was afraid!  
  Ellen glanced around, and her eyes rested upon a magnificent picture that hung against the
      wall. The subject of this painting, which had no doubt struck her upon first entering that
      room, was a mythological scene.  
  Taking Greenwood by the hand, Ellen led him towards the picture.  
  "Do you see any thing that strikes you strangely there?" she said, pointing towards the work
      of art.  
  "The scene is Venus rising from the ocean, surrounded by nereids and nymphs," answered
      Greenwood.  
  "And you admire your picture much?"  
  "Yes—much; or else I should not have purchased it."  
  "Then have you unwittingly admired me," exclaimed Ellen; "for the face of your Venus is my
      own!"  
  Greenwood gazed earnestly upon the picture for a few moments; then, turning towards Ellen,
      he cried, "True—it is true! There are your eyes—your mouth—your smile—your forehead—your very
      hair! How strange that I never noticed this before. But—no—it is a dream: it is a mere
      coincidence! Tell me—how could this have taken place;—speak—is it not a mere delusion—an
      accidental resemblance which you noticed on entering this room?"  
  "Come with me," said Ellen in a soft and melancholy tone.  
  Still retaining him by the hand, she led him into the landing place communicating with the
      drawing-room and leading to the stairs.  
  A magnificent marble statue of a female, as large as life, stood in one corner. The model
      was naked down to the waist, one hand gracefully sustaining the drapery which enveloped the
      lower part of the form.  
  "Whence did you obtain that statue!" demanded Ellen, pointing towards the object of her
      inquiry.  
  "The ruin of a family long reputed rich, caused the sale of all their effects," answered
      Greenwood; "and I purchased that statue, amongst other objects of value which were sold, for a
      mere trifle."  
    
  "What do you mean, Ellen?"  
  "I mean that the bust of your marble statue is my own," answered the young lady, casting
      down her eyes, and blushing deeply.  
  "Another enigma!" cried Greenwood.  
  They returned to the drawing-room, and returned their seats upon the sofa.  
  A long pause ensued.  
  "Will you tell me, Ellen," at length exclaimed Greenwood, deeply struck by all he had heard
      and seen within the last half hour,—"will you tell me, Ellen, whether you have lost your
      reason, or I am dreaming?"  
  "Lost my reason!" repeated Ellen, with fearful bitterness of tone; "no—that were perhaps a
      blessing; and naught save misery awaits me!"  
  "But the image—the picture—and the statue?" exclaimed Greenwood impatiently.  
  "They are emblems of phases in my life," answered Ellen. "I told you ere now that my father
      and myself were reduced to the very lowest depths of poverty. And yet we could not die;—at
      least I could not see that poor, white-haired, tottering old man perish by inches—die the
      death of starvation. Oh! no—that was too horrible. I cried for bread—bread—bread! And there
      was one—an old hag—you know her—"  
  "Go on—go on."  
  "Who offered me bread—bread for myself, bread for my father—upon strange and wild
      conditions. In a word I sold myself in detail."  
  "Again that strange phrase!" ejaculated Greenwood. "What mean you, Ellen?"  
  "I mean that I sold my face to the statuary—my likeness to the artist—my bust to the
      sculptor—my whole form to the photographer—and——"  
  "And—" repeated Greenwood, strangely excited.  
  "And my virtue to you!" added the young woman, whose tone, as she enumerated these
      sacrifices, had gradually risen from a low whisper to the wildness of despair.  
  "Ah! now I understand," said Greenwood, whose iron heart was for a moment touched: "how
      horrible!"  
  "Horrible indeed!" ejaculated Ellen. "But what other women sell first. I sold last: what
      others give in a moment of delirium, and in an excess of burning, ardent passion, I coolly and
      deliberately exchanged for the price of bread! But you know this sad—this saddest episode in
      my strange history! Maddened by the sight of my father's sufferings, I flew to the accursed
      old hag: I said, '  Give me bread, and do with me as thou wilt  !' She took me with her.
      I accompanied her, reckless of the way we went, to a house where I was shown into a chamber
      that was darkened; there I remained an hour alone, a prey to all the horrible ideas that ever
      yet combined to drive poor mortal mad, and still failed to accomplish their dread aim;—the
      hour passed—a man came—you know the rest!"  
  "Say no more, Ellen, on that head: but tell me, to what does all this tend?"  
  "One word more. Hours passed away, as you are well aware: you would not let me go. At length
      I returned home. My God! my poor father was happy! He had met an angel, while I had
      encountered a devil——"  
  "Ellen! Ellen!"  
  "He had gold—he was happy, I say! He had purchased a succulent repast—he had spread it with
      his own hand—he had heaped up his luxuries, in his humble way, to greet the return of his
      dear—his darling child. Heavens! how did I survive that moment? how dared I stand in the
      presence of that old man—that good, that kind old man—whose hair was so white with many
      winters, and whose brow was so wrinkled with many sorrows? I cannot say how passed the few
      hours that followed my return! Flower after flower had dropped from the garland of my
      purity—that purity in which he—the kind old man—had nurtured me! And then there was the
      dread—the crushing—the overwhelming conviction that had I retained my faith in God for a few
      hours more—had I only exercised my patience until the evening of that fatal day, I had been
      spared that final guilt—that crowning infamy!"  
  Ellen covered her face with her hands, and burst into an agony of tears. Deep sobs convulsed
      her bosom; she groaned in spirit; and never had the libertine by her side beheld female
      anguish so fearfully exemplified before.  
  Oh! when fair woman loses the star from her brow, and yet retains the sense of shame, where
      shall she seek for comfort? whither shall she fly to find consolation?  
  Greenwood was really alarmed at the violence of the poor girl's grief.  
  "Ellen, what can I do for you? what would you have with me?" he said, passing his arm around
      her waist.  
  She drew hastily away from his embrace, and turning upon him her tearful eyes, exclaimed,
      "If you touch me under the influence of the sentiment that made you purchase my only jewel,
      lay not a finger on me—defile me not—let my sorrows make my person sacred! But if you
      entertain one spark of feeling—one single idea of honour, do me justice—resign me not to
      despair!"  
  "Do you justice, Ellen?"  
  "Yes—do me justice; for I was pure and spotless till want and misery threw me into your
      arms," continued Ellen, in an impassioned tone; "and if I sinned—if I surrendered myself up to
      him who offered me a price—it was only that I might obtain bread—bread for my poor
      father!"  
  "Ellen, what would you have me do?"  
  "What would I have you do!" she repeated, bitterly: "oh! cannot you comprehend what I would
      have you do to save my honour? It is in your power to restore me to happiness;—it is you who
      this day—this hour—must decide my doom! You ask me what I would have you do? Here, upon my
      knees I answer you—here, at your feet I implore you, by all your hopes of prosperity in this
      world and salvation in the next—by all you bold dear, solemn, and sacred—I implore you to
      bestow a father's honourable name upon the child which I bear in my womb!"  
  She had thrown herself before him—she grasped his hands—she bedewed them with her tears—she
      pressed them against her bosom that was convulsed with anguish.  
  "Rise, Ellen—rise," exclaimed Greenwood: "some one may come—some one may—"  
  "Never will I rise from this position until your tongue pronounces my fate!"  
  "You do not—you cannot mean——"  
   and sorrows, I will smile when you smile—I will console you when you weep. I
      will serve you—upon my knees will I serve you;—I will never weary of doing your bidding. But—O
      God! do not, do not refuse me the only prayer which I have now to offer to mortal man!"  
  "Ellen, this is impossible! My position—my interest—my plans render marriage—at present—a
      venture in which I cannot embark."  
  "You reject my supplication—you throw me back into disgrace and despair," cried Ellen: "Oh!
      reflect well upon what you are doing!"  
  "Listen to me," said Mr. Greenwood. "Ask me any thing that money can purchase, and you shall
      have it. Say the word, and you shall have a house—a home—furnished in all imaginable
      splendour; and measures shall be taken to conceal your situation from the world."  
  "No—this is not what I ask," returned Ellen. "The wealth of the universe cannot recompense
      me if I am to pass as Mr. Greenwood's pensioned mistress!"  
  "Then what, in the name of heaven, do you now require of me?" demanded the Member of
      Parliament impatiently.  
  "That you should do me justice," was the reply, while Ellen still remained upon her
      knees.  
  "Do you justice!" repeated Greenwood: "and how have I wronged you? If I deliberately set to
      work to seduce you—if, by art and treachery, I wiled you away from the paths of duty—if, by
      false promises, I allured you from a prosperous and happy sphere,—then might you talk to me of
      justice. But no: I knew not whom I was about to meet when the old hag came to me that day, and
      said——"  
  "Enough! enough! I understand you," cried Ellen, rising from her suppliant position, and
      clasping her hands despairingly together. "You consider that you purchased me as you would
      have bought any poor girl who, through motives of vanity, gain, or lust, would have sold her
      person to the highest bidder! Oh—now I understand you! But, one word, Mr. Greenwood! If there
      were no such voluptuaries—such heartless libertines as you in this world, would there be so
      many poor unhappy creatures like me? In an access of despair—of folly—and of madness, I rushed
      upon a path which men like you alone open to women placed as I then was! Perhaps you consider
      that I am not worthy to become your wife? Fool that I was to seek redress—to hope for
      consolation at your hands! Your conduct to others—to my father—to—"  
  "Ellen! I command you to be silent! Remember our solemn compact on that day when we met in
      so strange and mysterious a manner;—remember that we pledged ourselves to mutual
      silence—silence with respect to all we know of each other! Do you wish to break that
      compact?"  
  "No—no," ejaculated Ellen, convulsively clasping her hands together: "I would not have you
      publish my disgrace! Happily I have yet friends who will—but no matter. Sir, I now leave you:
      I have your answer. You refuse to give a father's name to the child which I bear? You may live
      to repent your decision. For the present, farewell."  
  And having condensed all her agonising feelings into a moment of unnatural coolness—the
      awful calmness of despair—Ellen slowly left the room.  
  But Mr. Greenwood did not breathe freely until he heard the front door close behind her.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXI. THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.  
  THE building in which the representatives of the nation assemble at Westminster, is about as
      insignificant, ill-contrived, and inconvenient a place as can be well conceived. It is true
      that the edifices appropriated to both Lords and Commons are both only temporary ones;
      nevertheless, it would have been easy to construct halls of assembly more suitable for their
      purposes than those that now exist.  
  The House of Commons is an oblong, with rows of plain wooden benches on each side, leaving a
      space in the middle which is occupied by the table, whereon petitions are laid. At one end of
      this table is the mace: at the other, sit the clerks who record all proceedings that require
      to be noted. Close behind the clerks, and at one extremity of the apartment, is the Speaker's
      chair: galleries surround this hall of assembly;—the one for the reporters is immediately over
      the Speaker's chair; that for strangers occupies the other extremity of the oblong; and the
      two side ones are for the use of the members. The ministers and their supporters occupy the
      benches on the right of the speaker: the opposition members are seated on those to the left of
      that functionary. There are also cross-benches under the strangers' gallery, where those
      members who fluctuate between ministerial and opposition opinions, occasionally supporting the
      one side or the other according to their pleasure or convictions, take their places.  
  At each extremity of the house there is a lobby—one behind the cross-benches, the other
      behind the Speaker's chair, between which and the door of this latter lobby there is a high
      screen surmounted by the arms of the united kingdom. When the House divides upon any question,
      those who vote for the motion or bill pass into one lobby, and those who vote against the
      point to question proceed to the other. Each party appoints its   tellers  , who station
      themselves at the respective doors of the two lobbies and count the members on either side as
      they return into the house.  
  The house is illuminated with bude-lights, and is ventilated by means of innumerable holes
      perforated through the floor, which is covered with thick hair matting.  
  According to the above-mentioned arrangements of benches, it is evident that the orator, in
      whatever part he may sit, almost invariably has a considerable number of members behind him,
      or, at all events, sitting in places extremely inconvenient for hearing. Then, the apartment
      itself is so miserably confined, that when there is a full attendance of members, a least a
      fourth cannot obtain seats.  
  It will scarcely be believed by those previously unaware of the fact, that the reporters for
      the public press are only allowed to attend and take notes of the proceedings   upon
       sufferance    target="#ENG18460_N076" [76]    
  At half-past four o'clock the members began to enter the home pretty thickly.  
  Near the table stood a portly happy-looking man, with a somewhat florid and good-natured
      countenance, grey eyes, and reddish hair. He was well dressed, and wore enormous watch-seals
      and a massive gold guard-chain. He conversed in an easy and complacent manner with a few
      members who had gathered around him, and who appeared to receive his opinions with respect and
      survey him with profound admiration: this was Sir Robert Peel.  
  One of his principal admirers on this (as on all other occasions) was a very stout
      gentleman, with dark hair, prominent features, a full round face, eyes of a sleepy expression,
      and considerable heaviness of tone and manner: this was Sir James Graham.  
  Close by Sir James Graham, with whom he exchanged frequent signs of approval as Sir Robert
      Peel was conversing, was a small and somewhat repulsive looking individual, with red hair,
      little eyes that kept constantly blinking, a fair complexion, and diminutive features,—very
      restless in manner, and with a disagreeable and ill-tempered expression of countenance. When
      he spoke, there was for more of gall than honey in his language; and the shafts of his satire,
      though dealt at his political opponents, not infrequently glanced aside and struck his
      friends. This was Lord Stanley.  
  Shortly before the Speaker took the chair, a stout burly man, accompanied by half-a-dozen
      representatives of the Emerald Isle, entered the house. He was enveloped in a cloak, which he
      proceeded to doff in a very leisurely manner, and then turned to make some observation to his
      companions. They immediately burst out into a hearty laugh—for it was a joke that had fallen
      upon their ears—a joke, too, purposely delivered in the richest Irish brogue, and, accompanied
      by so comical an expression of his round good-natured countenance that the jest was altogether
      irresistible. He then proceeded slowly to his seat, saying something good-natured to his
      various political friends as he passed along. His broad-brimmed hat he retained upon his head,
      but of his cloak he made a soft seat. His adherents immediately crowded around him; and while
      he told them some rich racy anecdote, or delivered himself of another jest, his broad Irish
      countenance expanded into an expression of the most hearty and heart-felt good-humour. And yet
      that man had much to occupy his thoughts and engage his attention; for he of whom we now speak
      was Daniel O'Connell.  
  Close by Mr. O'Connell's place was seated a gentleman of most enormously portly form, though
      little above the middle height. On the wrong side of sixty, he was as hale, robust, and
      healthy-looking a man as could be seen. His ample chest, massive limbs, ponderous body, and
      large head denoted strength of no ordinary kind. His hair was iron-grey, rough, and bushy; his
      eyes large, grey, and intelligent; his countenance rigid in expression, although broad and
      round in shape. This was Joseph Hume.  
  Precisely at a quarter to five the Speaker took the chair; Mr. Greenwood was then introduced
      by the Tory whipper-in, and (as the papers said next morning) "took the oaths and his seat for
      Rottenborough."  
  The Whig whipper-in surveyed him with a glance of indignant disappointment; but Mr.
      Greenwood affected not to notice the feeling which his conduct had excited. On the contrary,
      he passed over to the Opposition benches (for it must be remembered that the Whigs then
      occupied the ministerial seat) where his accession to the Tory ranks was very warmly
      greeted—being the more pleasant as it was totally unexpected—by Sir Robert Peel and the other
      leaders of that party.  
  Mr. Greenwood was not a man to allow the grass to grow under his feet. He accordingly
      delivered his "maiden speech" that very evening. The question before the House was connected
      with the condition of the poor. The new member was fortunate enough to catch the Speaker's eye
      in the course of the debate; and he accordingly delivered his sentiments upon the topic.  
  He declared that the idea of a diminution of duties upon foreign produce was a mere
      delusion. The people, he said, were in a most prosperous condition—they never were more
      prosperous; but they were eternal grumblers whom nothing could satisfy. Although some of the
      most enlightened men in the kingdom devoted themselves to the interests of the people—he
      alluded to the party amongst whom he had the honour to sit—the people were not satisfied. For
      his part, he thought that there was too much of what was called   freedom  . He would
      punish all mal-contents with a little wholesome exercise upon the tread-mill. What
      presumption, he would like to know, could be greater than that of the millions daring to have
      an opinion of their own, unless it were the audacity of attempting to make that opinion the
      rule for those who sate in that House? He was astounded when he heard the misrepresentations
      that had just met his ears from honourable gentlemen opposite relative to the condition of the
      working classes. He could prove that they ought to put money in the savings-banks; and yet it
      was coolly alleged that in entire districts they wanted bread. Well—why did they not live upon
      potatoes? He could demonstrate, by the evidence of chemists and naturalists, that potatoes
      were far more wholesome than bread; and for his part he was much attached to potatoes. Indeed,
      he often ate his dinner without touching a single mouthful of bread. There was a worthy
      alderman at his right hand, who could no doubt prove to the House that bread spoilt the taste
      of turtle. Was it not, then, a complete delusion to raise such a clamour about bread? He (Mr.
      Greenwood) was really astonished at honourable gentlemen opposite; and he should give their
      measure his most strenuous opposition at every stage.  
   who had been previously stretched upon the benches in the galleries, comfortably
      snoozing, rose up in the middle of their nap to listen to him.  
  The Conservative papers next morning spoke in raptures of the brilliancy of the new talent
      which had thus suddenly developed itself in the political heaven; while the Liberal prints
      denounced Greenwood's language as the most insane farrago of anti-popular trash ever heard
      during the present century.  
  Mr. Greenwood cared nothing for these attacks. He had gained his aims: he had already taken
      a stand amongst the party with whom he had determined to act;—he had won the smiles of the
      leader of that party; and he chuckled within himself as he saw baronetcies and sinecures in
      the perspective.  
  That night he could not sleep. His ideas were reflected back to the time when, poor,
      obscure, and friendless, he had commenced his extraordinary career in the City of London. A
      very few years had passed;—he was now rich, and in a fair way to become influential and
      renowned. The torch of Fortune seemed ever to light him on his way, and never to shine
      obscurely for him in the momentous affairs of life:—like the fabled light of the Rosicrucian's
      ever-burning lamp, the halo of that torch appeared constantly to attend upon his steps.  
  Whether he thus prospered to the end, the sequel of our tale must show.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXII. THE BLACK CHAMBER AGAIN.  
  IT was now the beginning of April, and the bleak winds had yielded to the genial breath of
      an early spring.  
  At ten o'clock, one morning, an elderly gentleman, with a high forehead, open countenance,
      thin white hair falling over his coat collar, and dressed in a complete suit of black,
      ascended the steps of the northern door, leading to the Inland Letter Department of the
      General Post Office, Saint Martin's-le-Grand.  
  He paused for a moment, looked at his watch, and then entered the building. Having ascended
      a narrow staircase, he stopped at a door in that extremity of the building which is the nearer
      to Aldersgate Street. Taking a key from his pocket, he unlocked the door, glanced cautiously
      behind him, and then entered the   Black Chamber  .  
  Having carefully secured the door by means of a bolt and chain, he threw himself into the
      arm-chair which stood near the large round oaken table.  
  The Examiner—for the reader has doubtless already recognised him to be the same individual
      whom we introduced in the twenty-ninth chapter of our narrative—glanced complacently around
      him; and a smile of triumph curled his thin pale lips. At the same time his small, grey,
      sparkling eyes were lighted up with an expression of diabolical cunning: his whole countenance
      was animated with a glow of pride and conscious power; and no one would have supposed that
      this was the same old man who meekly and quietly ascended the steps of the Post-Office a few
      minutes ago.  
  Bad deeds, if not the results of bad passions and feelings, soon engender them. This was the
      case with the Examiner. He was the agent of the Government in the perpetration of deeds which
      disgraced his white hair and his venerable years;—he held his appointment, not from the
      Postmaster-General, but direct from the Lords of the Treasury themselves;—he filled a
      situation of extreme responsibility and trust;—he knew his influence—he was well aware that he
      controlled an engine of fearful power—and he gloated over the secrets that had been revealed
      to him in the course of his avocation, and which he treasured up in his bosom.  
  He had risen from nothing; and yet his influence with the Government was immense. His
      friends, who believed him to be nothing more than a senior clerk in the Post-Office, were
      surprised at the great interest which he evidently possessed, and which was demonstrated by
      the handsome manner in which all his relatives were provided for. But the old man kept his
      secret. The four clerks who served in his department under him, were all tried and trustworthy
      young men; and their fidelity was moreover secured by good salaries. Thus every precaution was
      adopted to render the proceedings of the Black Chamber as secret as possible;—and, at the time
      of which we are writing, the uses to which that room was appropriated were even unknown to the
      greater number of the persons employed in the General Post-Office.  
  The Examiner was omnipotent in his inquisitorial tribunal. There alone the authorities of
      the Post-Office had no power. None could enter that apartment without his leave:—he was
      responsible for his proceedings only to those from whom he held his appointment. At the same
      time, he was compelled to open any letters upon a warrant issued and directed to him by the
      Secretaries of State for the Home and Foreign Departments, and for the Colonies, as well as in
      obedience to the Treasury. Thus did he superintend an immense system of   espionnage  ,
      which was extended to every class of society, and had its ramifications through every
      department of the state.  
  It must be observed that, although the great powers of Europe usually communicated with
      their representatives at the English court by means of couriers, still the agency of
      post-offices was frequently used to convey duplicates of the instructions borne by these
      express-messengers; and many of the minor courts depended altogether upon the post-office for
      the transport of their despatches to their envoys and ambassadors. All diplomatic
      correspondence, thus transmitted, was invariably opened, and notes or entire copies were taken
      from the despatches, in the Black Chamber. Hence it will be perceived that the English Cabinet
      became possessed of the nature of the greater part of all the instructions conveyed by foreign
      powers to their representatives at the court of Saint James's.  
  But the Government carried its proceedings with regard to the violation of correspondence,
      much farther than this. It caused to be opened all letters passing between important political
      personages—the friends as well as the enemies of the Cabinet; and it thus detected party
      combinations against its existence, ascertained private opinions upon particular measures, and
      became possessed of an immense mass of information highly serviceable to diplomatic intrigue
      and general policy.  
  Truly, this was a mighty engine in the hands of those who swayed the destinies of the
      British Empire;—but the secret springs of that fearfully complicated machine were all set in
      motion and controlled by that white-headed and aged man who now sat in the Black Chamber!  
    
  That man knew enough to overturn a Ministry with one word.  
  That man could have set an entire empire in a blaze with one syllable of mystic
      revelation.  
  That man was acquainted with sufficient to paralyze the policy of many mighty states.  
  That man treasured in his mind facts a mere hint at which would have overwhelmed entire
      families—aye, even the noblest and highest in the land—with eternal disgrace.  
  That man could have ruined bankers—hurled down vast commercial firms—levelled mercantile
      establishments—destroyed grand institutions.  
  That man wielded a power which, were it set in motion, would have convulsed society
      throughout the length and breadth of the land.  
  Need we wonder if the government gave him all he asked? can we be astonished if all those in
      whom he felt an interest were well provided for?  
  When he went into society, he met the possessors of vast estates, whom he could prostrate
      and beggar with one word—a word that would proclaim the illegitimacy of their birth. He
      encountered fair dames and titled ladies, walking with head erect and unblushing brow, but
      whom he could level with the syllable that should announce their frailty and their shame. He
      conversed with peers and gentlemen who were lauded as the essence of honour and of virtue, but
      whose fame would have withered like a parched scroll, had his breath, pregnant with fearful
      revelations, only fanned its surface. There were few, either men or women, of rank and name,
      of whom he knew not something which they would wish to remain unknown.  
  Need we wonder if bad passions and feelings had been engendered in his mind? Can we be
      astonished if he had learnt to look upon human nature as a fruit resembling the apples of the
      Dead Sea, fair to gaze upon, but ashes at the heart?  
  Presently a knock at the door was heard. The Examiner opened it, and one of his clerks
      entered the room. He bowed respectfully to his superior, and proceeded to take his seat at the
      table. In like manner, at short intervals, the other three subordinates arrived; but the one
      who came last, brought with him a sealed parcel containing a vast number of letters, which he
      had received from the President of one of the sorting departments of the establishment. These
      letters were now heaped upon the table before the Examiner; and the business of this
      mysterious conclave commenced.  
  The entire process of opening the letters has been described in detail in the twenty-ninth
      chapter. We shall therefore now content ourselves, with a record of those letters which were
      examined upon the present occasion.  
  The first was from Castelcicala to the representative of that Grand Duchy at the English
      court, and was marked "Private." It ran as follows:—  
  
  "  City of Montoni, Castelcicala.    
  "The undersigned is desired by his lordship the Marquis of Gerrano, his Serene Highness's
       Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, to inform your Excellency that your despatches marked
       L 1, M 2, and N 3, were received in due course. His lordship regrets to find that Prince
       Alberto positively refuses to renounce his claims to the ducal crown of Castelcicala at the
       death of the reigning Grand Duke, whom God preserve for many years! His lordship is surprised
       that Prince Alberto should reject the compromise offered; inasmuch as, by complying with the
       terms thereof, he would receive a pension of twenty thousand pounds sterling   per
        annum  ; whereas, by obstinately refusing the proposals made by the government of
       Castelcicala, he will obtain nothing. Moreover, it must be apparent to Prince Alberto that
       his claims will be set aside by the government of Castelcicala; and that a foreign prince
       will receive an invitation to accept the ducal crown at the death of his present Serene
       Highness the reigning Grand Duke. It would be well to make fresh representations to Prince
       Alberto; and assure him that he would act wisely to accept offers made in perfect good will,
       and that he may probably regret his obstinacy when too late. If the Prince cherishes the idea
       of enforcing his claims by arms, at the death of the reigning Grand Duke, your Excellency
       would do well to undeceive him; inasmuch, as his Majesty the King of Naples and his Holiness
       the Pope, holding in abhorrence the liberal notions entertained by the Prince, will support
       the government of Castelcicala in its determination to place a foreign prince upon the ducal
       throne at the death of his Serene Highness now reigning.  
  "The undersigned is moreover instructed by his lordship the Marquis of Gerrano, to request
       your Excellency to pay prompt and full attention to the following Instructions:—An English
       lady, of the name of Eliza Sydney, arrived a month ago at Montoni. She is apparently about
       twenty seven or twenty-eight years of age, very beautiful, and unmarried. She travelled in a
       handsome carriage, attended by one female servant and an elderly valet. Although arrived at
       that mature age, she has preserved all the freshness of her youthful charms—a circumstance
       which renders her presence here the more dangerous, for certain reasons which the undersigned
       will detail to your Excellency on a future occasion. This charming English woman brought
       letters of introduction to certain noble families at Montoni, and immediately obtained
       admittance into the very first society of this capital. She has taken up her residence at the
       villa possessed by the Earl of Warrington, in the suburbs of Montoni, and is, it is believed,
       nearly related to that English nobleman. The service now required of your Excellency is to
       ascertain all particulars that can be gleaned concerning her. This is of the utmost—the very
       utmost importance. As a guide to your proceedings, it may be as well to mention that Miss
       Sydney this morning sent a letter to the post-office addressed to a Mrs. Arlington, residing
       in Dover Street, London.  
  "The undersigned avails himself of this note to renew to your Excellency assurances of his
       most perfect consideration.  
  "  March 15, 1839.    
    BARON RUPERTO,    
  "Under Secretary of State for Foreign affairs, &amp;c."  
  
  "Eliza Sydney!" exclaimed the Examiner. "That is the same young lady whose plot with one
      Stephens, to defraud the Earl of Warrington, was discovered through the medium of the Black
      Chamber, and revealed to the solicitor of the Bank of England."  
  "The very same, no doubt, sir," observed the first clerk.  
  "Then the letter which Eliza Sydney has sent from Montoni to Mrs. Arlington in London, must
      be amongst this packet of correspondence," continued the Examiner, glancing at the pile of
      letters before him, "since it left Castelcicala by the same mail as the document of Lord
      Ruperto."  
  The Examiner turned over the letters; and, at length, extracted a particular one from the
      heap, observing, "Here it is." He then passed it to the clerks, by whom it was opened. The
      contents were as follows:—  
  
  "  Montoni, 15th March, 1839.    
   dear Diana, it is perfect summer! I ordered the carriage to stop for at least a
       quarter of an hour upon the hill, that I might enjoy the magnificent view of the vast plain
       and the beautiful city. Far above the edifices around, rose the two towers of the ancient
       cathedral of St. Theodosia—their dark and gloomy masses forming a striking contrast with the
       extensive white buildings of the ducal palace in the immediate foreground. The port of the
       city was crowded with shipping, the flags of all nations waving from the forest of masts that
       indicated the existence of an extensive commerce. While I was yet gazing upon the scene, the
       roar of distant artillery reached my ears. The Grand Duke (as I afterwards learnt) was just
       coming back from a water excursion in his beautiful yatch, a small steamer rigged as a
       frigate; and the batteries of the port, and the ships of war in the offing thundered forth a
       salute in honour of the royal return. Two line-of-battle ships, one French and the other
       English, and three frigates of the Castelcicalan navy, had all their yards manned, and
       displayed their gayest colours. Altogether the scene was one of the most enchanting and
       exhilarating that I have ever yet beheld.  
  "In three quarters of an hour my carriage entered Montoni by the suburb of Saint Joanna. If
       I had admired the city from a distant point, how was I enraptured when I could survey it
       close at hand. It more nearly resembles the Chaussée d'Antin (a fashionable quarter of Paris,
       which city I had an opportunity of seeing during the four days that I remained there on my
       way hither) than any other place which I have ever yet beheld. The streets of Montoni are
       wide, and the buildings elegant. There are numerous fountains, and all the principal
       mansions, even in the very heart of the town, have gardens attached to them. At length I
       reached the fashionable quarter, and, having passed the magnificent dwellings of the
       Ministers of Foreign Affairs and the Interior, I passed through the immense arena, on one
       side of which stands the ducal palace. At that moment a regiment of Horse Guards was
       returning to its barracks close to the royal residence. The superb black chargers, the
       glittering helmets and cuirasses of the men, the waving plumes, the clang of armour, and the
       braying of trumpets, formed a   tout ensemble   so inspiring, that I almost wished I was
       a man to be able to serve in such a corps.  
  "The carriage proceeded, crossed the river over a suspension bridge, and, having passed the
       official dwellings of the Ministers of War, Commerce, Marine, and Finance, entered the
       southern suburbs of the metropolis of Castelcicala. I could not have conceived that any city
       could have possibly equalled London or Paris in the magnificence of its shops and the amount
       of wealth displayed in their windows;—but certainly, Montoni is a miniature counterpart of
       the finest portions of either the English or French capital.  
  "At length I reached the villa so generously placed at my disposal by the Earl of
       Warrington, whom I can never sufficiently thank for all his kindness towards me. The
       servants, already advertised of my intended visit by letters which his lordship had written
       from England at the time of my departure, were prepared to receive me. I was immediately
       comfortable—immediately   at home  . Oh! how deliciously did I sleep that night;—but
       before I closed my eyes, how fervently did I pray for the welfare and happiness of the Earl
       of Warrington and of Diana Arlington!  
  "And the Earl told you that it was a little villa, Diana! It is a superb mansion. The rooms
       are magnificently furnished; the gardens are spacious and full of all that is delicious in
       the shape of fruit or enchanting in the guise of flowers. I wandered for hours in those
       inviting grounds the morning after my arrival. But would you have me depict my new abode?
       Listen:—  
  "Imagine a river half as broad as the Thames at Richmond, and far, far more lovely in its
       scenery. At a distance of about fifty yards from the stream, on a gentle acclivity rising
       from its very edge, stands a large square mansion, built of white free-stone. The villa is
       two storeys high; and the windows on the lower floor open like folding doors down to the
       ground. The hall and magnificent staircase are of the finest marble. And will you humour me
       in attending to all my minor details?—I have fitted up my own boudoir in precisely the same
       style as that in which I passed many happy hours at Clapton! A grove of myrtles almost
       surrounds the villa, and is musical with the warblings of a thousand birds. A gravel walk,
       margined with flowers, leads down to the river's bank. Behind the mansion extend the gardens,
       the acclivity still rising gently, until the summit of the verdant amphitheatre is on a level
       with the first floor windows. There is a marble basin in the middle of the grounds, filled
       with crystal water, in which gold and silver fish disport joyously beneath the shade of the
       overhanging fruit trees on one side, or, on the other, play with their glistening fins, in
       the brilliant flood of sunlight. Oh! in truth it is a charming spot, and seems as if its
       barriers could for ever exclude the footsteps of sorrow!  
  "When I had rested myself for two or three days, and completely recovered from the fatigues
       of travelling, I delivered my letters of introduction to the families to whom they were
       addressed. And here I have another instance of the Earl of Warrington's noble conduct to
       record. The letters all represented me as the near relation of the Earl of Warrington! I was
       received with open arms by all to whom I was thus introduced; and each kind Italian family
       seemed only anxious to make me happy! Oh! what virtue must there have been in those letters,
       which Count Alteroni had written, no doubt according to the dictation of the Earl. But, ah!
       Diana, relative to those letters there is a secret, which I do not choose to trust to paper,
       but which the Earl has perhaps already explained to you. Oh! I do not wonder now that I was
       not to seek to penetrate their contents, in England (neither did I myself ever open them at
       all); nor is it a matter of marvel that those recommendations should prove such strong
       passports to the favour of those to whom they were addressed!  
  "One of those letters was directed to General Grachia, the colonel of that very regiment of
       Horse Guards which I so much admired on my first entrance into Montoni. He and his amiable
       family, consisting of a wife and three lovely daughters, overwhelmed me with kindness. But
       now I am going to state something that will surprise you. A few days after I first became
       known to this delightful family, there was a grand review in the palace-square. General
       Grachia commanded the troops, which mustered to the number of about seven thousand. The
       ladies insisted that I should accompany them in their open carriage to see the manœuvres. The
       review was to be a very brilliant one, as the Grand Duke himself intended to inspect the
       troops. I accordingly assented; and to the review we went. Never have I beheld a more
       magnificent sight. The road around the square was lined with carriages filled with all the
       rank and beauty of Montoni. The troops presented a splendid appearance—being the choice
       regiments of the Castelcicalan army, which, I have understood, is seventeen thousand strong.
       At length the Grand Duke Angelo III., attended by a brilliant staff, arrived upon the arena.
       He is a fine-looking man for his age, which must be at least sixty. He was dressed in a Field
       Marshal's uniform, and wore, amongst other orders, the insignia of the English Garter, of
       which he is a knight. He rode a little in advance of the great officers of state, who
       attended upon him; and when the troops presented arms, and the band struck up the national
       air, he took his heron plumed hat completely off, thus remaining bareheaded until the royal
       salute was ended. He then passed along the lines; but the troops received him in silence,
       for, to tell you the truth, his Serene Highness is far from popular, in consequence of
       certain political reasons with which I shall not trouble you at present.  
  "When the review was over, the Duke, attended by his staff, rode round the square, and
       graciously replied to the salutations which awaited him on all sides. When he drew near the
       carriage in which General Grachia's family and myself were seated, he rode up to it, and
       entered into conversation with the General's lady. Presently he glanced toward me, and
       immediately bent down and whispered to Signora Grachia. The result was my formal introduction
       to the Grand Duke of Castelcicala. He inquired very kindly after the Earl of Warrington, whom
       he remembered perfectly. I blushed deeply as I answered his questions, for I was ashamed of
       the imperfect manner in which I speak the Italian language—for all that I know, as well as
       the little French with which I am acquainted, I taught myself during my residence at the
       villa at Clapton. The Grand Duke, however, seemed to comprehend me perfectly. Having
       conversed with us at least a quarter of an hour, he again whispered something to General
       Grachia's lady; and then rode on.  
  "It appeared that there was to be a grand ball and reception at the ducal palace on the
       following evening; and this second whisper expressed a positive wish—amounting, you know, on
       the part of royalty, to a command—that I should accompany General Grachia's family. I could
       not avoid obedience to this invitation. I therefore expressed my readiness to comply with it.
       And now, my dearest Diana, pardon a woman's vanity;—but it struck me that I never looked so
       well as on that evening, when I was dressed for the ducal ball!  
   at the idea of a prince of sixty dancing: but in Italy every body dances. I was
       invited by the major of General Grachia's regiment for the first quadrille, and by Baron
       Ruperto, under secretary of state for foreign affairs, for the second. The third and fourth I
       declined dancing, being somewhat overcome with the heat of the apartments. But the fifth
       quadrille I danced:   this time   I could not refuse. No—it was not   an
        invitation   that I received—it was a   command  ! I danced with the Grand Duke of
       Castelcicala!  
  "I found, on this occasion, that his highness speaks English well. He emigrated, it
       appears, to England, when the French armies occupied Italy, and resided in London for some
       years. We accordingly conversed in English. He expressed a hope that I should make a long
       stay in Montoni, and observed that he should be very angry with General Grachia's lady if she
       did not always bring me to court with her on the evenings of reception. I was at a loss how
       to express myself in return for so much condescension; and I am afraid, my dear Diana, that I
       was very awkward.  
  "On the following morning, one of the Duke's attendants arrived at the villa with a present
       of the choicest fruits and flowers for me. He informed me that they were sent by order of his
       highness, and the messenger was expressly commanded to make inquiries concerning my health. I
       thanked him most sincerely for this act of kindness on the part of his illustrious master;
       and when he had taken his departure, I sate in a delicious summer-house the entire morning,
       wondering to what circumstance I could have been indebted for such a token of royal
       favour.  
  "A few days elapsed; and the same messenger returned, bringing me a quantity of the most
       select Italian works, all beautifully bound, and with the ducal arms printed on the fly-leaf.
       Beneath this blazonry, were the words—'  From Angelo III. to Miss Eliza Sydney  .' And
       now I asked myself, 'What can all this mean?'  
  "Two days more passed, when I received an intimation from Signora Grachia that there was to
       be a select   conversazione   in the evening at the palace, and that I was specially
       invited. I accompanied General Grachia's family; and the moment we entered the room, the
       Grand Duke accosted us. After conversing with us for a few moments, he offered me his arm,
       saying that he would conduct me to inspect his sculpture-gallery. This splendid museum
       communicated with the apartment wherein the company (which was by no means numerous on the
       occasion) was assembled. His Highness led me into the gallery, and explained all its
       curiosities. The works of art, by some of the most eminent masters, are very valuable. His
       Highness evidently prolonged the inspection as much as possible; and his language was
       occasionally interspersed with a compliment calculated to flatter me—nay, Diana, to make me
       very vain! When we returned to the drawing-rooms, the Duke led me to a sofa, seated himself
       by me, and conversed with me for a considerable time. He asked me many questions relative to
       my family—whether my father and mother were still living, whether I had any brothers or
       sisters, and in what degree of relationship I stood towards the Earl of Warrington? He then
       asked me how it was that I had not as yet launched my fortunes in the bark of matrimony? I
       blushed deeply at this question, and replied that I had never as yet encountered any one with
       whom I had chosen to link my destinies. He then spoke of the peculiar position of princes,
       observing with a deep sigh, that they could not always follow the bent of their inclinations,
       nor obey the natural dictates of their affections. During the remainder of the evening I was
       the object of universal attention—I could not   then   conceive wherefore—on the part of
       the noble and beauteous guests assembled. Every one manifested the most respectful courtesy
       towards me; and General Grachia's family were more kind to me than ever. Ah! a vague
       suspicion darted across my mind:—could it be possible? Oh! no—no! that were the height of the
       most insane presumption!  
  "Day after day passed; and frequent were the tokens of the Grand Duke's favour which I
       received—but all of the most delicate description,—flowers, fruits, and books. I was also
       compelled to accompany the Grachias to all the ducal   soirées   and receptions; and on
       each occasion, the Duke paid me marked attention. Oh! my dear friend, my heart beats when I
       remember that only last evening his Serene Highness pressed my hand, and said to me in a low
       but impressive tone, '  Would that I were not a prince, or that you were a
       princess!  '  
  "I can say no more at present, dearest Diana; but you shall speedily hear again from your
       sincerely attached and ever deeply grateful.  
    "ELIZA SYDNEY."    
  
  "No wonder," said the Examiner, drily, "that Baron Ruperto has desired the Envoy of
      Castelcicala at the English court to make inquiries relative to Miss Eliza Sydney. Let the
      contents of both letters be duly noted, and forwarded to her Majesty's Secretary of State for
      Foreign Affairs."  
  
  CHAPTER LXXIII. CAPTAIN DAPPER AND SIR CHERRY BOUNCE.  
  THE verdure of the early spring re-clothed the trees with their gay garments, and gave back
      its air of cheerfulness to the residence of Count Alteroni.  
  It was about mid-day; and the sun beamed brightly from a heaven of unclouded blue. Nature
      appeared to be reviving from the despotism of winter's rule; and the primrose peeped bashfully
      forth to welcome the return of the feathered chorister of the grove.  
  The count and countess, with their lovely daughter, were seated in the breakfast-parlour.
      The two ladies were occupied with their embroidery: the noble Italian exile himself was
      reading the   Montoni Gazette  , which that morning's post had brought him.  
  Suddenly he uttered an exclamation of surprise, and then appeared to read with additional
      interest and attention.  
  "What news from Castelcicala?" inquired the countess.  
  "You remember that the Earl of Warrington applied to me between three and four months ago
      for letters of introduction on behalf of a lady of the name of Eliza Sydney?" said the
      count.  
  "And who was about to visit Castelcicala in order to escape the persecution of that vile man
      who aspired to the hand of Isabella," added the countess.  
  "The very same. She is a cousin of the Earl of Warrington; and it appears that her presence
      has created quite a sensation in Montoni. The   Gazette   of the 15th of last month
      contains the following passage:—'  The fashionable circles of Montoni have lately received a
       brilliant addition in the person of Miss Eliza Sydney, a near relative of the Earl of
       Warrington, the noble Englishman who purchased some years ago the beautiful villa at the
       extremity of the suburbs of Petrarca. Miss Sydney has taken up her abode at the villa; and
       during the month that she has already honoured our city with her presence, her agreeable
       manners, amiable qualities, and great personal attractions have won all hearts. It is even
       rumoured that the highest person in the land has not remained indifferent to the attractions
       of this charming foreigner.  '"  
  "Surely this latter sentence cannot allude to the duke?" exclaimed the countess.  
  "It can allude to none other," answered the count: "'  the highest person in the
      land  .' Of course it means the duke. But, after all, it is probably only one of those idle
      reports which so frequently obtain vogue in the fashionable circles of all great cities—"  
  "Or one engendered in the fertile brain of a newspaper editor," said the countess. "Still it
      would be strange if, through   your   letters of introduction—"  
  "Oh! it is too absurd to speculate upon," interrupted the count, impatiently.  
  "And yet your lordship is not unaccustomed to judge now and then by the mere superficial
      appearances of things," said the countess severely.  
  "I!" ejaculated the Italian noble.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Ah! that one foolish step of mine!"  
  "And you pronounced Mr. Markham a villain without according him an opportunity of giving an
      explanation," added the countess.  
  "Always Richard Markham!" cried the count angrily. "Why do you perpetually throw his name in
      my teeth?"  
  "Because I think that you judged him too hastily," said the countess.  
  "Not at all! did he not admit that he had been in Newgate?"  
  A cold shudder crept over Isabella's frame.  
  "Yes; and so has our friend Mr. Armstrong, whom you value so highly, and whose letter from
      Germany gave you so much pleasure yesterday morning."  
  "Certainly I was pleased to receive that letter, because I had not heard from Armstrong so
      long: I fancied that something had happened to him. But, to return to what you were saying,"
      continued the count; "Armstrong was incarcerated merely for a political offence; and there is
      something honourable in that."  
  "Mr. Markham may have been more unfortunate than guilty," said the countess. "At all events
      you have condemned without giving him a fair hearing. I have even asked you to refer to the
      newspapers of the period and read his case; but you refuse to give him a single chance."  
  "Your ladyship is very quick to blame," said the count, somewhat sarcastically; "but you
      forget how rejoiced you were some years ago to discover that the chevalier Gilderstein, whose
      father was executed for coining, was no relation of your family, as you had long deemed him to
      be: and yet the chevalier was himself innocent of his father's offence."  
  "I certainly have expressed myself more than once in the way you mention," returned the
      countess; "but I had so spoken without due consideration. Now that a case is immediately
      present to my view, I am inclined to feel and act more charitably."  
  "But how could Mr. Markham justify himself?" exclaimed the count. "Was not that attempt at
      burglary in this house so very glaring?"  
  "Oh!" cried Isabella, colouring deeply; "let Mr. Markham be guilty in other respects, I
      would pledge my existence he never,   never    
  "You speak warmly, signora," said the count, whose brow contracted. "You forget that I
      myself overheard him talking with some one over the wall of the garden only a few hours before
      the entrance of the burglars——"  
  "We have many cases upon record," interrupted Isabella enthusiastically, "in which men have
      been unjustly convicted on an almost miraculous combination of adverse circumstances. Suppose
      that Mr. Markham was, in the first instance, made the victim of rogues and villains, and
      sacrificed by them to screen their own infamy,—suppose he underwent his punishment in Newgate,
      being innocent,—will you sympathise with and commiserate him? or will you scorn and repulse
      him? Oh! my dear father, no kindness would be too great towards a being who has suffered
      through the fallibility of human laws! Suppose that one of the villains who plunged
      him—innocent—into all that misery, repented of the evil, and signed a confession of his own
      enormity and of Mr. Markham's guiltlessness;—then would you remain thus prejudiced? Oh! no—my
      dear father, you never would! your nature is too noble!"  
  "My dearest Isabella, let us drop this conversation. In the first place, it is not likely
      that your romantic idea of one of the villains whom you bring upon your fanciful stage,
      signing such a confession——"  
  "Oh! my dear father," exclaimed Isabella, a ray of joy flashing from her large black eyes;
      "if such were the case——"  
  "Well—if such were the case," added the count impatiently, "the entire mystery of the
      burglary remains to be cleared up to my satisfaction; and therefore, with your permission, we
      will leave this subject—now, and for ever!"  
  Isabella's head dropped upon her bosom; and her countenance wore an expression of the most
      profound disappointment and grief.  
  Scarcely had the conversation thus received a rude check and the count resumed the perusal
      of his paper, when Sir Cherry Bounce and Captain Smilax Dapper were announced.  
  "Here we are—the two inseparables, strike me!" ejaculated the gallant hussar. "How is the
      signora this morning? somewhat melancholy—blow me!"  
  "It seems that you have nothing to make you melancholy, Captain Dapper," said the count, who
      did not experience the greatest possible amount of delight at the arrival of the two young
      gentlemen, although he was far too well bred to show his annoyance.  
  "Beg pardon, count—on the contrary, smite me!" returned Captain Dapper: "I have a great deal
      to be melancholy for. I lost six hundred pounds last night at cards—blow me for a fool that I
      was! I must confess, however, that I wasn't half awake."  
  "Yeth—and Thmilackth inthithted upon my thitting down and playing too; and I lotht thwenty
      poundth."  
  "And got scolded by your mamma into the bargain, for sitting up too late," said the
      captain.  
  "Nonthenth, Thmilackth!" exclaimed Sir Cherry; "I dare thay my mother allowth me ath gweat a
      lithenth ath your'th."  
  "Well we won't quarrel, Cherry," said the officer. "But what do you think, count? I and
      Cherry dined together at the Piazza, Covent-Garden, where we got the most unexceptionable
      turtle and the most approved venison. The iced punch was superlative—the charges, of course,
      comparative. Well, in the evening, while I and Cherry were sipping our claret—and Cherry was
      admitting confidentially to me that he really hates claret, and only drinks it because it is
      fashionable——"  
  "Oh! naughty Thmilackth!"  
  "Hold your tongue, Cherry. Well—a couple of gentlemen came into the coffee-room. There was
      no one else there besides me and Cherry and the new comers. So they began whispering together
      for a few moments; and at length one of them rushes forward, catches Cherry in his arms, and
      cries out, '  Oh! my dear Smith—my friend Smith—how glad I am to meet with you again!  '
      Cherry coloured up to the eyes——"  
  "Oh! what an infamouth falthhood!"  
  "You did, and you were so frightened you could not speak a word. I was obliged to tell the
      loving gentleman that your name was not Smith; and then he begged pardon, and said he never
      saw in his life such a resemblance to an old school-fellow of his as Cherry was. Well, we
      laughed over the mistake: the two gentlemen rang for claret; and we all sate down to the same
      table together. We drank several bottles of wine, and then adjourned to another place to sink
      it all with brandy-and-water. Cherry was quite top-heavy; but I was as sober as a judge—"  
  "Why did you woll in the mud, then?"  
  "Why? because I tripped against a stone. Well, then we were foolish enough to go to a
      gambling-house with these gentlemen; and there I lost, and Cherry lost."  
  "And the two gentlemen won, I suppose?" said the count, drily.  
  "Oh! of course," answered Captain Dapper.  
  "How foolish of two mere boys like you to think of going to a gambling-house," exclaimed the
      count. "Do you not see that the two   gentlemen   who accosted you in so strange a manner
      in the coffee-room of an hotel, perceived you to be a couple of greenhorns?"  
  "They might have thought so of Cherry," cried the captain, colouring deeply, and twirling
      his moustachios; "but they couldn't have formed such an opinion of me—an officer in her
      majesty's service—strike, smite, and blow me!"  
  "I'm thure I don't look tho veway gween ath you think," said Sir Cherry Bounce, now falling
      into a sulky fit with his friend the officer.  
  "Oh! I know perfectly well that they were regular gentlemen," continued the captain; "for
      they gave us their cards; and one was Sir Rupert Harborough. The other was Mr.
      Chichester."  
  "Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr. Chichester!" exclaimed Isabella, on whom the mention of these
      names produced a strange effect.  
  "Yes," answered Captain Dapper; "and so you see that they were proper gentlemen, and it was
      all luck. But strike such luck as mine!"  
  Isabella's countenance was suddenly irradiated with a gleam of the purest and most
      heart-felt joy;—the tears started to her eyes—but they were tears of happiness;—and, fearful
      that her emotions would be observed, she hurried from the room.  
  "Ah! but you didn't hear Cherry's adventure about the bird, did you, count?" demanded
      Dapper, still continuing the conversation.  
  The count shook his head.  
   the bird-fancier's in Castle Street; and you may have it:—it is still there. All
      you have to do is to take a cage with you, call, and ask for Mr. Dawson's
         Poluphloisboio  .' Of coarse Cherry was quite delighted;—indeed, he almost hugged my
      friend Dawson; and all the rest of the evening he could think and talk of nothing but the bird
      with a hard name. At length he thought of asking how large a cage he ought to take with him.
      'The largest you have got,' replied Dawson. So the evening passed away; and next morning,
      before the clock struck nine, there was Cherry, rattling up Regent Street as fast as he could
      in a hack-cab, with a huge parrot-cage jolting on his knees. Well, he reached Castle Street,
      found out Snodkins's, and said, 'Pleathe, I have come for Mithter Dawthon'th
         Poluphloithboio  .'—'for Mr. Dawson's what?' cried Snodkins.—'For Mithter Dawthon'th
         Poluphloithboio  ,' repeated Cherry.—'And what the devil is that? and who the deuce
      are you?' roared Snodkins, who thought that Cherry had come to make a fool of him.—'The thing
      ith a bird; and my name ith Thir Cherway Bounthe,' was the reply.—'And my name is Snodkins,'
      said the fellow; 'and I don't understand being made a fool of by you.'—'Mithter Dawthon bought
      a bird here a few dayth ago,' persisted Cherry; 'and he thayth I may have it. Here'th the
      cage: tho give me the bird.'—Snodkins was now inclined to believe that it was all right; so he
      brought down the bird, put it into the cage, and Cherry drove triumphantly home with it. His
      mamma was sitting at breakfast when he entered with the cage in his hand. 'Here, ma,' said
      Cherry——"  
  "I don't thay   Ma   more than you do, Thmilackth," interrupted the youthful
      baronet.  
  "Yes, you do, Cherry," returned Dapper: "I have heard you a hundred times. But let me tell
      the story out. Well—Cherry's mamma exclaims, 'Lor, boy, what have you got there?'—'A
         Poluphloithboio  , ma, that my fwiend Dawthon gave me.'—'A what, Cherry!' shrieks the
      old lady.—'A   Poluphloithboio  , ma,' answers Cherry, bringing the cage close up to his
      ma.—'A   Poluphloisboio  !' ejaculates mamma: 'why, you stupid boy, it is nothing more or
      less than a hideous old owl!'—and so it was: and there the monster sate upon the perch,
      blinking away at a furious rate and looking as stupid as—as Cherry himself—smite him!"  
  Isabella had returned to the apartment and resumed her seat a few moments before this story
      was finished; and Captain Dapper appeared very much annoyed and surprised that she did not
      condescend to laugh at the recital.  
  "By the by," he observed, after a moment's pause, "I have something to tell you all—strike
      me!"  
  "Oh! yeth—about Wichard Markham," said Sir Cherry.  
  The count made a movement of impatience; the countess looked up from her embroidery; and a
      deep blush mantled upon the cheek, and a sudden tremor passed through the frame, of the lovely
      Isabella.  
  "Yes—about Richard Markham," continued the hussar officer. "I and Cherry were riding in the
      neighbourhood of his house the other day—"  
  "And we thaw the two ath tweeth."  
  "Yes—and something else too;—for we saw one of the sweetest, prettiest, most interesting
      young ladies—the signora herself excepted—walking in the garden—"  
  "Well, well," said the count impatiently; "perhaps Mr. Markham is married, and you saw his
      wife—that is all."  
  "No," continued Dapper; "for she was close by the railings that skirt the side of the road
      running behind his house; and we saw an old butler-looking kind of a fellow go up to her, and
      I heard him call her '  Miss  .'"  
  "Mr. Markham and his affairs are not of the slightest interest to us, Captain Dapper," said
      the count: "we do not even wish to hear his name mentioned. Isabella, my love, let us have
      some music."  
  But no reply was given to the request of the count, who was seated in such a way that he
      could not see his daughter's place at the work-table.  
  Isabella had again left the room.  
  Of what nature were the emotions which agitated the bosom of that beauteous—that amiable
      creature?  
  Wherefore had she first sought her own chamber to conceal tears of joy?  
  And why had she now retired once more, to hide the out-pourings of an intense anguish?  
  
  CHAPTER LXXIV. THE MEETING.  
  WHEN Isabella retired to her chamber the second time, she hastily put on her bonnet and
      shawl, and then hurried to the garden at the back of the mansion; for she felt the necessity
      of fresh air, to cool her burning brow.  
  She walked slowly up and down for a few minutes, her mind filled with the most distressing
      thoughts, when the sounds of voices fell upon her ears. She listened; and the consequential
      tone of the hussar-captain, alternating with the childish lisp of Sir Cherry Bounce, warned
      her that the two young coxcombs had also directed their steps towards the garden.  
  She felt in no humour to listen to their chattering gossip—wearisome at all times, but
      intolerable in a moment of mental affliction; still she could not return to the house without
      encountering them in her way. A thought struck her—the gardener had been at work all the
      morning; and the back-gate of the enclosure had been left open for his convenience. Perhaps it
      was not locked again? Thither did she hurry; and, to her joy, the means of egress into the
      fields were open to her.  
  The delicate foot of that beauteous creature of seventeen scarcely made an impression upon
      the grass, nor even crushed the daisy, so light was her tread! And yet her heart was heavy.
      Grief sate upon her brow; and her bosom was agitated with sighs.  
  She walked onward; and, turning the angle of a grove, was now beyond the view of any one in
      her father's garden. She relaxed her speed, and moved slowly and mournfully along the
      outskirts of the grove, vainly endeavouring to conquer the sorrowful ideas that obtruded
      themselves on her imagination.  
  But Woe is an enemy that knows no remorse, gives no quarter, while it retains poor mortal in
      its grasp; and when its victim is a young and innocent girl, whose heart beats with its first,
      its virgin love,—that direful enemy augments its pangs in proportion to the tenderness and
      sensibility of that heart which it thus ruthlessly torments.  
  Isabella's reverie was suddenly interrupted by a deep sigh.  
  —seated upon the trunk of a tree that had been blown down by the late winds,—with
      his face buried in his hands, was a gentleman apparently absorbed in reflections of no
      pleasurable nature.  
  He sighed deeply, and his lips murmured some words, the sound of which, but not the meaning,
      met her ears.  
  She was about to retrace her steps, when her own name was pronounced by the lips of the
      person seated on the tree,—and in a tone, too, which she could not mistake.  
  "Oh! Isabella, Isabella, thou knowest not how I love thee!"  
  An exclamation of surprise—almost of alarm—burst from the lips of the beautiful Italian; and
      she leant for support against a tree.  
  Richard Markham—for it was by   his   lips that her name had been pronounced—raised his
      head, and gave vent to a cry of the most wild, the most enthusiastic joy.  
  In a moment he was by her side.  
  "Isabella!" he exclaimed: "to what good angel am I indebted for this unexpected joy—this
      immeasurable happiness?"  
  "Oh! Mr. Markham—forgive me if I intruded upon you—but, accident—"  
  "Call it not accident, Isabella: it was heaven!—heaven that prompted me to seek this spot
      to-day, for the first time since that fatal night—"  
  "Ah! that fatal night," repeated the signora, with a shudder.  
  Markham dropped the hand which he had taken—which he had pressed for a moment in his: and he
      retreated a few paces, his entire manner changing as if he were suddenly awakened to a sense
      of his humiliating condition.  
  "Signora," he said, in a low and tremulous tone, "is it possible that   you   can
      believe me guilty of the terrible deed which a monster imputed to me?"  
  "Oh! no, Mr. Markham," answered the young lady hastily; "I never for an instant imagined so
      vile—so absurd an accusation to be based upon truth."  
  "Thank you, signora—thank you a thousand times for that avowal," exclaimed Richard. "Oh! how
      have I longed for an opportunity to explain to you all that has hitherto been dark and
      mysterious relative to myself:—how have I anticipated a moment like this, when I might narrate
      to you the history of all my sorrows—all my wrongs, and part with you—either bearing away the
      knowledge of your sympathy to console me, or of your scorn to crush me down into the very
      dust!"  
  "Oh! Mr. Markham, I cannot hear you—I dare not stay another moment here," said Isabella,
      excessively agitated. "My father's anger—"  
  "I will not detain you, signora," interrupted Richard, coldly. "Obey the will of your
      parents; and if—some day—you should learn the narrative of my sorrows from some accidental
      source, then—when you hear how cruelly circumstances combined, and how successfully villains
      leagued to plunge me into an abyss of infamy and disgrace,—then, signora, then reflect upon my
      prayer to be allowed to justify myself to you to-day—a prayer which obedience to your parents
      compels you to reject."  
  "To me, Mr. Markham, no explanation is necessary," said Isabella, timidly, and with her eyes
      bent towards the ground so that the long black fringes reposed upon her cheeks.  
  "Oh! fool that I was to flatter myself that you would hear me—or to hope that you would
      listen to aught which I might say to justify myself!" ejaculated Markham. "Pardon me,
      signora—pardon my presumption; but I judged your heart by mine—I measured your sympathy, your
      love, by what I feel;—and I have erred—yes, I have erred—but you will pardon me! Oh! how could
      the   freed convict   dare to hope that the daughter of a noble—a lady of spotless name,
      and high birth—should for a moment stoop to him? Ah! I indulged in a miserable delusion! And
      yet how sweet was that dream in my solitary hours! for you must know, lady, that I have fed
      myself with hopes—with wild insane hopes—until my soul has been comforted, and for a season I
      have forgotten my wrongs, deep—ineffaceable though they be! I thought to myself—'There is one
      being in this cold and cheerless world who will not put faith in all that calumny proclaims
      against me,—one being who, having read my heart, will know that I have suffered for a deed
      which I never committed, and from which my soul revolts,—one being who can understand how it
      is possible for me to have been unfortunate but never criminal,—one being whose sympathy
      follows me amidst the hatred and scorn of others,—one being in a word, who would not refuse to
      hear from my lips a sad history, and who would be prepared to find it filled with sorrows, but
      not stained with infamy!'—Such were my thoughts—such was my hope—such was my delusive dream: O
      God! that I had never yielded to so bright a vision! It is now dissipated; and I can well
      understand, lady—now—that no explanation is indeed necessary!"  
  "Mr. Markham," said Isabella, in a voice scarcely audible through deep emotion,—"Mr.
      Markham—you misunderstand me—I did not mean that I would hear no explanation;—Oh! very far
      from that—"  
  "But that it would be now useless!" exclaimed Markham, his tone softening, for he saw that
      the lovely idol of his heart was deeply touched. "You mean, signora, that all explanation
      would be now too late; that, whether innocent or guilty of the crime for which I suffered two
      years' cruel imprisonment, I am so surrounded by infamy—my name is so encrusted with odium,
      and scorn, and disgrace, that to associate with me—to be seen for a moment near me, is a moral
      contagion—a plague—a pestilence—"  
  "Oh! spare me—spare me these reproaches," cried Isabella, now weeping bitterly; "for
      reproaches they are—and most unjust ones, too!"  
  "Unjust ones!" exclaimed Richard; "what mean you, signora?"  
  "That by me at least they are undeserved, Mr. Markham," returned the lovely girl.  
  "How undeserved? how unjust?" said Richard, eagerly catching at the first straw which
      presented itself upon the ocean that had wrecked all his hopes; "did you not say that no
      explanation was now necessary?"  
  "Nor was it ever," answered Isabella, whose voice was almost entirely subdued by her
      emotions; "for I never—never believed the accusations which you seek to explain away!"  
  "My God! do I hear aright? or am I again the sport of a delusive vision?" cried Richard;
      then, advancing towards Isabella, he took her hand, and said, "Signora, repeat what you ere
      now averred, that I may believe my own ears! You believe that I was the victim of villains,
      and not a vile—degraded—base criminal?"  
  "Such has been, and ever would have been my belief—even without a proof," replied
      Isabella.  
    
  "The confession of one of the wretches who wronged you—the narrative of the man named
      Talbot!" answered the Italian, casting a glance of sympathy—of tender sympathy—upon her
      lover.  
  "And now, O God, I thank thee!" said Markham, his eyes filling with tears, and his heart a
      prey to feelings of an indescribable nature: "O God, I thank thee—how sincerely, devoutly I
      thank thee, thou well knowest, for thou canst read the secrets of my soul! And you,
      Isabella—dearest Isabella—Oh! can you forgive me, that I dared for a moment to suspect your
      generous soul—that I doubted your noble disposition?"  
  "Forgive you, Richard!" exclaimed the charming girl, smiling through her tears: "Oh! how can
      you ask me?"  
  "And thus, my Isabella, you know all!"  
  "I know all—how deeply you were wronged, how fearfully you have suffered."  
  "Isabella, you are an angel!" cried Markham, rapturously.  
  "Nay—do not flatter me," said the signora. "I have but obeyed the dictates of my own
      convictions—and—"  
  "Speak, Isabella—speak!"  
  "And of my own heart," she added, casting down her eyes, and blushing. "You left the
      confession of that Talbot behind you—on the fatal night——"  
  "Oh! I remember now; and since then, how often have I deplored its loss."  
  "My own maid found it, and gave it to me on the following morning. Since then, I have read
      it very—very often!" said Isabella. "But now—I will return it to you—I will find some
      opportunity to forward it you."  
  "Not for worlds, Isabella!" cried Markham. "If you still love me—if you still deem me worthy
      of your regard—keep it, keep it as a pledge that you believe me to be innocent!"  
  "Yes, Richard, I will keep it—keep it for you," said Isabella. "But do not think that your
      cause is without advocates at our abode. My mother believes that you were wronged, and not
      guilty—"  
  "Oh, Isabella! then there is yet hope!"  
  "But my father—my father," continued the signora, mournfully; "he will not hear our
      arguments in your favour. It was only an hour ago that my mother and myself reasoned with him
      upon the subject; but, alas! he—who is so good and so just in all other respects,—  he  
      is obdurate and inexorable in this!"  
  "Time, sweetest girl, will do much; and now my soul is filled with hope! Oh! how I rejoice
      that accident should have thrown in your way the very proof that confirmed the opinion which
      your goodness suggested in my favour."  
  "And not that proof alone," said Isabella; "for even this very morning, a circumstance
      confirmed the assertion, that the two men who were associated with Talbot in making you the
      blind instrument of their infamous schemes, are characters of the very worst description.
      Captain Dapper and his young friend were plundered by Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr. Chichester
      last evening at a gambling-house."  
  "Oh! there is no enormity of which those villains are not capable!" said Markham.  
  "But while I speak of Captain Dapper," observed Isabella, suddenly assuming an air of
      restraint and embarrassment, "I am reminded of another piece of information which he gave me,
      and which nearly concerns yourself."  
  "Concerns me, Isabella! What can it be?"  
  "Nay—I know not whether it would be discreet—indeed, I am confident that——"  
  "Speak, Isabella—speak unreservedly. Do you wish any explanation from me? have you heard any
      further aspersions upon my character? Speak, Isabella—speak: your own noble confidence merits
      an equally unreserved frankness on my part."  
  "No, Richard—dear Richard," said the lovely Italian, in a bewitching tone of tenderness; "I
      was wrong—very wrong to allude to so idle, so silly an assertion;—and yet—and yet it grieved
      me—deeply at the moment."  
  "My dearest Isabella, I implore you to speak. Let there be no secrets between you and
      me."  
  "No—Richard—I will not insult you—"  
  "Insult me, Isabella? Impossible!"  
  "Yes—insult you with a suspicion—"  
  "Ah! some falsehood of that Captain Dapper," exclaimed Markham. "Pray give me an opportunity
      of explaining away any impression—"  
  "Oh! no impression, Richard;—only a moment's uneasiness;—and, if you will compel me to tell
      you—even at the risk of appearing a jealous, suspicious creature in your eyes—"  
  "Ah, Isabella, if it be nothing but jealousy," said Richard, with a smile of satisfaction,
      "I am well pleased; for there would not be jealousy without love; and thus, the former is a
      proof of the latter."  
  "Then, Captain Dapper observed that he was riding near your abode the other day; and he saw
      a young and very beautiful lady in your garden——"  
  "And he said truly, Isabella," interrupted Markham: "he, no doubt, saw Miss Monroe, who,
      with her venerable father, is residing at my house—through charity, Isabella—through charity!
      No tongue can tell the miseries which those poor creatures had endured, until I forced them to
      come and take up their abode with me. Mr. Monroe was my guardian—and by his speculations did I
      lose my fortune;—but never have I borne him ill-will—and now—"  
  "Say no more, Richard," exclaimed Isabella: "you have a noble heart—and never, never will I
      mistrust it!"  
  "And you love me, Isabella? and you will ever love me? and you will never be another's?"  
  "Do you require oaths, and vows, and protestations, Richard?" said the young lady, tenderly:
      "if so, you shall have them. But my own feelings—my own sentiments are the best guarantee of
      my actions towards you!"  
  "Oh! I believe you—dearest, dearest Isabella!" cried the young man, enthusiastically, his
      handsome countenance irradiated with a glow of animation which set off his proud style of male
      beauty to its fullest extent; "I believe you; and you have rendered me supremely happy, for
      you have taught me to have confidence in myself—you have led me to believe that I am worthy of
      even such an angel as you! Oh! dearest Isabella, you know not how sweet it is to be beloved by
      a pure and virgin heart like yours! If my wrongs—my injuries—my sufferings—have taught thee to
      feel one particle of sympathy the more for me, then am I proud of the sad destinies that have
      so touched that tender heart of thine! But say, Isabella—say, when shall we meet again?"  
   to a clandestine meeting. And you, Richard—you possess a soul too noble, and too
      good, to urge me to do that which would be wrong. The woman who has been a disobedient
      daughter, may be a disobedient wife; and much as I love you, Richard—much as I dote upon every
      word that falls from your lips—much as I confide in your own affection for me, I cannot—I dare
      not—will not diminish myself in my own opinion, nor stand the chance of incurring a suspicion
      of levity in yours, by a course which is contrary to filial duty. No, Richard—do not ask me to
      meet you again. Something tells me that all will yet be well: we are young—we can hope;—and
      God—that God in whom we both trust—will not forget us!"  
  "Now, Isabella—now," exclaimed Richard, "I comprehend all that is great and noble in your
      disposition. Yes—it shall be as you say, my ever dear Isabella; and the mental contemplation
      of your virtue will teach me to appreciate the love of such a heart as yours."  
  "We must now separate, dear Richard," said Isabella: "I have already remained too long away
      from home! But one word ere you depart:—that miscreant who made so fearful an accusation
      against you on the fatal night when you left my father's dwelling——"  
  "He is no more, Isabella," answered Markham: "at least I have every reason to believe that
      when the police, instructed by me, discovered his dwelling, three months ago, the villain
      terminated his existence in a manner that corresponded well with the whole tenour of his life.
      The den of infamy which he inhabited, was blown up with gunpowder, the moment after the
      officers of justice entered it; and there can be no doubt that he, together with one of his
      accomplices, perished in the ruin that was produced by his own hand. Several constables met
      their death at the same time; and, according to information gathered from the neighbours, an
      old woman—believed to be the miscreant's mother—was also in the house at the time of the
      explosion."  
  "How fearful are the ways of crime!" said Isabella, with a shudder. "May God grant that in
      future you will have no enemies to cross your path! And now, farewell, Richard—farewell. We
      shall meet again soon—Providence will not desert us!"  
  Richard pressed his lips to those of that charming girl, and bade her adieu.  
  She tore herself—now reluctantly!—away from him, and hastily retraced her steps towards the
      mansion.  
  But ere she passed the angle of the grove, she turned and waved her handkerchief to her
      lover.  
  The young man kissed his hand fondly to the idol of his heart: and in another moment
      Isabella was out of sight.  
  That one half-hour of bliss, which Richard had thus passed with the Italian lady, was a
      reward for weeks—months—years of anguish and of sorrow!  
  
  CHAPTER LXXV. THE CRISIS.  
  DURING the ensuing three months nothing occurred worthy of record, in connexion with any
      character that has figured upon the stage of our narrative.  
  The month of July arrived: and found Tomlinson, the banker, more deeply involved in
      difficulties than ever. The result was that the consultations between him and old Michael, the
      cashier, were of very frequent occurrence; and the latter grew more morose, more dirty, and
      more addicted to snuff in proportion as the affairs of the bank became the more desperate.  
  One morning, in the first week of July, Tomlinson arrived at the banking-house half an hour
      earlier than usual. He had taken home the cash-books with him on the preceding evening, for
      the purpose of ascertaining his true position; and he brought them back again in the morning
      before any of the clerks had arrived, with the exception of old Michael Martin, who was
      already waiting for him when he entered the parlour.  
  "Well, Michael, my old friend," said Tomlinson, on whose countenance the marks of care and
      anxiety were now too visibly traced, "I am afraid that the establishment cannot possibly exist
      many days longer. Mr. Greenwood will be here presently: and he is my only hope."  
  "Hope indeed!" growled Martin, plunging his fore-finger and thumb into his capacious
      snuff-box: "how he left you to shift for yourself after you gave that security to Count
      Alteroni."  
  "Which security fell due a few days ago; and a note from the count, received yesterday,
      tells me that he shall call upon me next Saturday at twelve o'clock for the amount."  
  "He is very welcome to call—and so are a good many others," said Michael; "but they will go
      back as empty as they came."  
  "Good God! can nothing be done?" exclaimed Tomlinson, with an expression of blank despair
      upon his countenance. "Say, Michael—is there any resource? do you know of any plan? can you
      suggest any method—"  
  "Not one. You must go to the Bankruptcy Court, and I must go to the workhouse;"—and the old
      man took a huge pinch of snuff.  
  "To the workhouse!" cried Tomlinson; "no—impossible! Do not say that, my good old
      friend."  
  "I do say it, though;"—and two tears rolled slowly down the cashier's cheeks.  
  This was the first time that Tomlinson had ever beheld any outward and visible sign of
      emotion on the part of his faithful clerk.  
  Tomlinson was not naturally a bad man—at all events, not a bad-hearted man: the cashier had
      served him with a fidelity rarely equalled; and that announcement of a workhouse-doom in
      connexion with the old man touched him to the soul.  
  "Michael," he said, taking the cashier's hand, "you do not mean to tell me that you are
      totally without resources for yourself? Your salary has been six hundred a year for a long
      time; and surely you must have saved something out of that—you, who have no family
      encumbrances of any kind, and whose expenses are so very limited."  
  The old man slowly opened one of the cash-books, pointed to the page at the head of which
      stood his own name, ran his finger down a column of payments made to himself, and stopping at
      the total, said, "That amount runs over nine years; and the amount is £540."  
  "What—is it possible?" cried Tomlinson: "you have only paid yourself £60 a-year."  
  "And that was too much for the state of the bank," said the cashier drily, taking a pinch of
      snuff at the same time.  
  "Now of all things which combine to make me wretched at this moment," said Tomlinson, "your
      position is the most afflicting."  
    
  "What shall we both do?" cried the banker. "But so long as I have a crust, you shall not
      want."  
  "Well—well, there's enough of that," almost growled the cashier, though his furrowed cheeks
      were still moist with tears. "I am an old man, and my wants are few. A bit of bread and a
      pinch of snuff are enough for me. But you—you, who have always lived like a gentleman,—how can
         you   stand it?"  
  "And is it literally come to this? Is there no resource?"  
  "Do you see any? I do not. Will your father help you?"  
  "Not with another sixpence."  
  "Will Greenwood?"  
  "Here he comes to answer for himself."  
  Mr. Greenwood entered the parlour, and old Michael, taking his cash-books under his arm,
      withdrew.  
  The member of parliament threw himself into a chair, and observed what a beautiful morning
      it was.  
  Tomlinson made a movement of impatience, and yet dared not ask the question that trembled
      upon his tongue, and the answer to which would decide his fate.  
  "Yes," continued Greenwood, "it is a lovely morning: all nature seems enlivened, and every
      body is inspired with a congenial feeling."  
  "What nonsense is this, Greenwood?" cried the banker. "Do you come to taunt a man upon the
      brink of ruin, with the happiness of others?"  
  "Oh! I beg your pardon, my dear Tomlinson. I really was waiting for you to question me upon
      matters of business; and in the mean time made use of some observations of common courtesy and
      politeness."  
  "The fact is, that since you obtained a seat in Parliament your manners have altogether
      changed. But please to put me out of suspense at once:—have you considered my proposal?"  
  "I have—maturely."  
  "And what is your decision?"  
  "That I cannot agree to it."  
  "I thought as much," said Tomlinson. "Well—now I have no alternative. I must close the bank
      and appear in the   Gazette  ."  
  "And when you are cleared by a certificate, I will enable you to set up in some business
      again."  
  "Upon that promise, Mr. Greenwood," said Tomlinson, severely, "I place no reliance—no
      reliance whatever."  
  "Just as you please," returned Greenwood coolly.  
  "How can I?" cried the banker. "When I gave my security for you to Count Alteroni, and
      relieved you of a burden of fifteen thousand pounds, you faithfully promised to assist me. Did
      you keep your word?"  
  "Did I not forgive you a debt which would have ruined you that very day?"  
  "True. But you were an immense gainer! You obtained twelve thousand pounds by the
      transaction. However, I shall be compelled to give an account of the transaction to the
      Bankruptcy Court."  
  "An avowal which will do you no good, and will only expose me," observed Greenwood, alarmed
      by this declaration.  
  "And why should I have any regard for you?" demanded Tomlinson, with that moroseness which
      men in his desperate condition are so frequently known to manifest towards intriguers more
      fortunate than themselves.  
  "I will tell you why you should have some regard for me," answered Greenwood. "In the first
      place, the mere fact of your having so long carried on this bank when in a helpless state of
      insolvency, thereby increasing your liabilities in a desperate manner, and receiving deposits
      the eventual repayment of which each day became less likely, will so irritate the mass of your
      creditors that you will never obtain your certificate. Secondly, unless you have a friendly
      trade-assignee, you will obtain no allowance out of the wrecks of the property, and you will
      find it difficult, considering the state your books   must   be in, to make up a balance
      sheet that would stand the remotest chance of passing."  
  "True—true," said Tomlinson: "my condition is really desperate."  
  "Not so desperate as you imagine," resumed Greenwood: "I will be your friend—I will save
      you, if you only follow my counsel."  
  "Ah! my good friend," cried the despairing man, "forgive me the expressions which fell from
      my lips just now."  
  "Do not mention that circumstance; I make every allowance for the irritated state of your
      feelings. In the first place, then, you can make me a creditor to the amount of thirty
      thousand pounds, and two or three of my friends creditors to an equal amount in the aggregate.
      We shall be enabled to give you your certificate, together with those persons who will not
      bear you animosity or whom we can talk over. In the second place, I can apply to be appointed
      trade-assignee; and I flatter myself—considering my position, representing as I do a free,
      enlightened, and independent constituency—my nomination will not be opposed."  
  "If you could only contrive   that  ," said Tomlinson, "I might pass my second
      examination in even a creditable manner; and afterwards—"  
  "And afterwards open as a stock-broker," added Greenwood. "That is the invariable resource
      of all bankrupt bankers; and what is more extraordinary, they obtain confidence and succeed
      too. Tradesmen who are unfortunate, always take to the wine, coal, or discount business, each
      of which can be commenced without a shilling; but your aim must be a broker's profession. It
      is so genteel—so comfortable: a hole of an office in the City, and a villa at Clapham or
      Kensington;—a mutton chop at the Dining-rooms in Hercules Passage at one, and turtle and
      venison at home at six. Ah! the life of a stock-broker is a very pleasant one!"  
  "I am sure the life of an insolvent banker is not," said Tomlinson, again rendered rather
      impatient by Mr. Greenwood's discursiveness.  
  "A thousand pounds will set you up comfortably again," continued Greenwood; "and that you
      shall have. Only follow my advice—and I will be the making of you. In the meantime, you had
      better not struggle against fortune any longer in this position. What is to-day? Thursday.
      Very well. I will strike a docket against you this very afternoon: the   fiat   can be
      opened to-morrow morning; and to-morrow evening you can be in the   Gazette  . Is that
      agreed?"  
  "Agreed!" exclaimed Tomlinson bitterly: "I have no resource left but that! Yes—it shall be
      as you say. But for God's sake, talk not in so cold and heartless a manner of the mode of
      procedure."  
   may strike the docket upon it presently. Then, as you are not to know that these
      proceedings are in operation against you, you must keep the bank open until the messenger
      comes down to-morrow afternoon from the Bankruptcy Court the moment the   fiat   is
      lawfully proclaimed before the Commissioner. Of course you will pretend to be struck with
      surprise, and instantly proceed to the Court to obtain your   protection  . Is that
      agreed upon?"  
  "I am in your hands," said Tomlinson. "Your advice shall now guide me altogether. But when I
      think upon the ruin and desolation my failure will cause—the widows and the orphans whom it
      will reduce to beggary—the poor tradesmen whom it will involve in inextricable
      difficulties,—it is enough to drive me mad."  
  "Pooh! pooh! my good fellow," said Greenwood; "these little things happen every day. As for
      the widows and the orphans, allow me to remind you that the wisdom and goodness of the
      legislative bodies—to one of which I have the honour to belong as the representative of an
      intelligent and independent constituency—have established asylums for the reception of persons
      so reduced, and where they enjoy every comfort, upon the trifling condition of doing a little
      needle-work, or breaking a few stones."  
  "Greenwood—Greenwood, do not speak in this heartless manner! Oh! the idea that my failure
      will render your words literally true—that numbers will be thereby reduced to the workhouse of
      which you speak,—it is this, it is this that overwhelms me!"  
  "You are very silly to give way to your feelings in this manner. Why do you know (and I may
      as well mention it by way of consolation in respect to the widows and orphans whose fate you
      deplore)—that the workhouses are conducted at present upon the most liberal principle
      possible? Do you know that the female inmates are handsomely remunerated for the shirts which
      they make—that they can make a shirt in a day and a half, and that they receive one farthing
      for each? That is their pocket-money—their little perquisites, my dear fellow;—so you perceive
      that the workhouse is not such a bad place after all."  
  Tomlinson was pacing the bank-parlour in an abstracted mood, and paid not the slightest
      attention to this tirade from the lips of the newly-fledged politician.  
  Mr. Greenwood saw that his observations were unheeded, and accordingly rose to take his
      departure. Tomlinson gave him a bill for a thousand pounds to enable him to strike a docket
      against him; and Mr. Greenwood then withdrew.  
  The moment he was gone, old Michael entered the room; and Tomlinson communicated to him all
      that had passed. The cashier made no reply, but took the largest pinch of snuff he had ever
      yet abstracted from his box or conveyed to his nose.  
  He had not yet broken silence, when the door opened, and Mr. Greenwood returned. Michael was
      about to withdraw; but the capitalist stopped him, saying, "Stay—three heads are better than
      two. I was just entering my cabriolet, when an idea—a brilliant idea struck me."  
  "An idea!" exclaimed Tomlinson: "what—to save me?"  
  "To render your failure legitimate—to make you appear an honourable, but an unfortunate
      man—to avert all blame from you—"  
  "Ah! if that could be done," interrupted the banker, his countenance animated with hope, "I
      might yet be spared the execrations of the widow and the orphan!"  
  "Ever your widows and orphans, my dear fellow," said Greenwood: "you are really quite
      sickening."  
  "Well—well—the idea?"  
  "Nothing is more simple," continued Greenwood. "You leave the bank this afternoon at five,
      as usual: Michael sees all safe, and takes his departure also. You leave fifty thousand pounds
      in specie and notes in the strong box, together with securities of foreign houses at Leipzig,
      Vienna, Turin, New York, Rio Janeiro, Calcutta, Sydney——"  
  "Greenwood, have you come back to mock a miserable—ruined man?"  
  "Quite the contrary. Listen! You leave money and securities to the amount of ninety-two
      thousand, three hundred, and forty-seven pounds—or any odd sum, to look well—safe in the
      strong box, together with the cash-books. You and Michael come in the morning—or perhaps it
      would be better to allow one of the clerks to arrive first,—and, behold! the bank has been
      broken into during the night—the money, the securities, and the books are all gone—and the
      bank stops as a natural consequence!"  
  "Impossible—impossible!" exclaimed Tomlinson: "it could never be done! I could not proclaim
      such a fraud without a blush that would betray me. What say you, Michael?"  
  The old cashier answered only with a grunt, and took snuff as it were by handfuls.  
  "What say you, Michael?" repeated Tomlinson, impatiently.  
  "I say that it   can   be done—ought to be done—and must be done," replied the old man.
      "I would sooner die than see the honour of the house lost—and   that   will save it."  
  "Well said, Michael," exclaimed Greenwood. "Now, Tomlinson, your decision?"  
  "It is a fearful alternative—and yet—and yet, it is preferable to infamy—disgrace——"  
  "Then you agree?"  
  "And if I agree—where are the means of executing the scheme? Who will rob—or affect to rob
      the premises?"  
  "That must be arranged by yourselves. The back of this house looks upon a court. The thieves
      can have effected their entrance through these parlour windows: the parlour doors will be
      found forced; the safe will have been broken open. Nothing can be more simple."  
  "Yes—I know how to manage it all," exclaimed old Martin, who had been ruminating more
      seriously than ever for the last few moments. "Mr. Greenwood, you have saved the honour of the
      bank, which I love as if it was my own child;"—and the cashier wrung the hand of the member of
      Parliament with a warmth indicative of an amount of feeling which he had never been known to
      demonstrate before.  
  "Well—I have given you the hint—do you profit by it," said Greenwood; and with these words
      he departed.  
  And as he drove back to the West-End, he said to himself, "Tomlinson will now be completely
      in my power, and will never dare confess the real nature of the transaction relative to Count
      Alteroni's fifteen thousand pounds. According to the first arrangement proposed, a bullying
      counsel or an astute Commissioner might have wormed out of him the exact truth; whereas,
      now—now his lips are silenced on that head for ever!"  
  The moment Greenwood had left the bank-parlour, old Michael accosted Tomlinson, and said
      "Have you full confidence in me?"  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Will you place yourself in my hands?"  
  "I will—in every way."  
  "Then you will leave the establishment as usual at five this evening; and trust to me to
      manage every thing. I have my plan ready arranged; but you shall know nothing
      to-day:—to-morrow—to-morrow——"  
  The old man stopped short, and had recourse to his snuff-box.  
  "Be it as you say, Michael," cried Tomlinson, always bewildered by the terrors of his
      situation, and still half shrinking from the daring plot which Greenwood had opened to his
      view; "I know that you are my faithful friend—my best, my only friend:—it shall be as you
      desire!"  
  
  CHAPTER LXXVI. COUNT ALTERONI'S FIFTEEN THOUSAND POUNDS.  
  ON the Saturday morning following the Thursday on which the above-mentioned conversation
      took place, the count and his family were seated at breakfast.  
  The morning paper was late; and his lordship was one of those persons who cannot enjoy their
      repast without the intellectual association of a journal.  
  At length the wished-for print arrived; and the count was soon buried in the preceding
      night's debate in the House of Commons—for he felt deeply interested in all political affairs,
      no matter to which country they referred.  
  "Really this Greenwood is a very clever man," he observed, after a long interval of silence.
      "He acquitted himself well last evening, notwithstanding the erroneous course he is pursuing
      in the political sphere. The Tories of this country have obtained a powerful auxiliary in him.
      It is a pity he is so unprincipled a villain—for, I repeat, he is really very clever."  
  "It is astonishing how men of his stamp contrive to push themselves forward in the world,"
      said the countess, "while those of honest principles and upright minds are either
      misunderstood, or vilely persecuted."  
    
  She thought of Markham as she uttered these words: indeed, the image of her lover was ever
      uppermost in the mind of the charming and affectionate girl.  
  "I am afraid," said the count, after a pause, "that the moral you have just advanced, Bella,
      is rather that of the stage and the romancist than of real life. And yet," he added fervently,
      "to entertain such an idea as mine is to question the goodness and the justice of Providence.
      Yes—I must believe in earthly rewards and punishments. You are right, my child—you are right:
      the wicked man will not ever triumph in his turpitude; nor may the virtuous one be oppressed
      until the end."  
  "No—or else were there small hope for us," said the countess solemnly. "The great men of
      Castelcicala must some day perceive who is their real friend."  
  "Alas!" exclaimed Isabella, "It is hard to be mistaken and suspected by those whose good
      opinions we would fain secure."  
  The count resumed the perusal of the newspaper; but his eyes had not dwelt many minutes upon
      the page ere he uttered a loud exclamation of mingled astonishment and alarm.  
  The ladies looked towards him in a state of the most painful suspense: and this feeling was
      not immediately removed, for the count, with an ashy pale face, continued to read the article
      that had caught his eyes, for some moments, ere he explained the cause of his emotion.  
  "Heavens!" exclaimed the countess, "are there any bad tidings from Italy?"  
  "No—the hand that strikes the blow which ruins us, is not so far distant," answered the
      nobleman, throwing the paper upon the table. "Ah! we were premature," he continued bitterly,
      "in founding our hopes upon the justice with which virtue is rewarded and vice punished!"  
  "The blow which ruins us?" said the countess, a prey to the most acute anxiety.  
  "Yes—Tomlinson has stopped payment," cried the Italian exile; "and—and we are ruined!"  
  "My dear father," said Isabella, hastening to fling her arms around the neck of her
      much-loved sire, "all may not be so bad as you imagine!"  
  "Ruined!" repeated the countess; and, taking up the newspaper, the following article
      instantly met her eyes:—  
  
  "ROBBERY AND STOPPAGE OF TOMLINSON'S BANK.  
  "The City was yesterday morning thrown into a state of the greatest fermentation by a
       rumour which prevailed at about eleven o'clock, that the above-mentioned old-established and
       well-known banking establishment had been plundered to an enormous amount, and had suspended
       its payments. Unfortunately the rumour was but too true; and our reporter, upon repairing to
       Lombard Street, found an immense crowd collected in front of the bank. The doors were closed;
       and the following notice was posted up;—'  James Tomlinson  
  is under the painful necessity of suspending the affairs of the bank, at least for the
        present. The flight of the cashier, with money and securities to an amount bordering upon a
        hundred thousand pounds, is the cause of this unfortunate step. Further particulars will be
        made known at speedily as possible.  ' It is impossible to describe the dismay which was
       depicted upon the countenances of those amongst the crowd who are sufferers by this calamity;
       and many very painful scenes took place. One widow lady who had placed her little all in the
       concern, and who arrived upon the spot, to draw her half yearly interest, only a few moments
       after the doors were closed, was taken away in a state of madness. We have since learnt that
       the unfortunate lady has entirely lost her reason.  
  "Our reporter upon prosecuting his inquiries, gleaned the following particulars of the
       occurrence which led to the stoppage of the bank; and we have every reason to believe that
       the narrative which they furnish may be relied upon.  
  "It appears that the cashier, whose name was Michael Martin, is a very old man, and had
       been for many years in the service of the present and late proprietors of the bank. His
       presumed integrity, his known experience, and his general conduct, had led to his elevation
       to the post of head cashier—a situation which he has filled for upwards of ten years, without
       exciting a suspicion relative to his proceedings. It is, however, supposed that he must have
       been pursuing a most nefarious course for a considerable length of time, for reasons which we
       shall state presently. On Thursday evening, Mr. Tomlinson, who, it appears, is the sole
       proprietor of the establishment, although the business has been all along carried on under
       its original denomination of   Tomlinson &amp; Co.  , quitted the bank at five o'clock,
       as usual, leaving the cashier to see all safe, and close the establishment for the day,
       according to custom. When Mr. Sanderson, one of the clerks, arrived at the bank at nine
       o'clock yesterday morning, he was surprised to find that the doors were not yet opened. The
       other clerks arrived shortly afterwards; and their surprise at length turned into alarm.
       Still the integrity of the cashier was not for a moment suspected; it was, however, imagined
       that something most have happened to him—an idea that was strengthened by the fact that the
       cashier occupied a room in the establishment, and there was consequently no reason to account
       for the doors remaining closed. The char-woman, who waited upon the cashier and swept out the
       bank, &amp;c., came up to the door while the clerks were thus deliberating, and stated that
       she had not been able to obtain admission that morning as usual. It was now determined by Mr.
       Sanderson to obtain the assistance of a policeman, and force an entrance. This was done; and
       egress was obtained by breaking through the windows and shutters (which close inside) of the
       bank parlour. Mr. Sanderson and the constable immediately proceeded to the cashier's private
       room, which is on the ground-floor, and in which the iron safe was kept. The bed had not been
       slept in during the night. Attention was then directed to the safe, where it was found that
       it was open, and its contents had been abstracted. The front door of the bank was opened, and
       the clerks admitted. Mr. Tomlinson was then immediately sent for. That gentleman arrived by
       ten o'clock; and a farther investigation took place under his directions. The result of this
       search was a discovery that not only had the specie, notes, and securities disappeared, but
       even the cash-books, and all the papers that could throw any light upon the financial affairs
       of the establishment. It is this circumstance which induces a belief that the cashier must
       have carried on a system of plunder for a considerable length of time.  
  "We regret to state that the shock was so great that Mr. Tomlinson was conveyed to his
       residence in a state bordering upon distraction."  
  
  "  Further Particulars.    
  
  "A reward of £3000 has been offered for the apprehension of the cashier; and a description
       of his person has been forwarded to all the principal seaports. [For   Description   see
       our advertising columns.] Our reporter learnt last evening that Mr. Tomlinson was more
       composed, and had even exerted himself to consult with some friends upon the best course to
       pursue. It, however, appears that so entirely did he confide in his cashier, that he is only
       able to give a vague and meagre account of the nature of the securities abstracted. They
       were, however, the bills and bonds of several great foreign and colonial mercantile houses.
       We regret to hear that Mr. G. M. Greenwood, M.P., had paid a considerable sum of money into
       the bank, on Thursday morning. It appears that upwards of fifty thousand pounds in specie and
       notes (the numbers of which are now unknown, they having been entered in one of the books
       taken away) and forty-four thousand in securities have disappeared.  
  "There is every reason to suppose that the delinquent will be speedily captured, as it is
       impossible for him to travel with a large amount of specie without exciting suspicion."  
  
  "  Latest Particulars.    
  
  "In order to institute the fullest and most complete investigation into the affairs of the
       bank, it was resolved, at a late hour last evening, at a meeting of the principal creditors,
       Mr. Greenwood in the chair, that a docket should be struck against Mr. Tomlinson. At the same
       time, it is our duty to observe that this is done with no ill feeling towards that gentleman,
       who is deserving only of universal sympathy, and, in no way, of blame."  
  
    
  "The name of that man Greenwood, in connexion with this affair," said the count, "impresses
      me with the idea that all is not right. Moreover, how could the cashier have removed a large
      quantity of specie without attracting attention in a thoroughfare so frequented at all hours
      as Lombard Street? There is something wrong at the foundation of this history of the
      robbery."  
  "Alas! little does it matter now to us, whether Mr. Tomlinson be a false or an unfortunate
      man," said the countess; "there is one thing certain—we are ruined!"  
  "Yes—my dearest wife, my beloved daughter," exclaimed the count, "we are in a pitiable
      situation—in a foreign land! It is true that I have friends: the Earl of Warrington—Lord
      Tremordyn, both of whom know our secret, and have faithfully kept it—would gladly assist me;
      but I would not—could not apply to them—even though it be to settle the few debts which I
      owe!"  
  "Still there remains one course," said the countess, hesitating, and regarding her husband
      with anxious timidity.  
  "One course!" ejaculated the count. "Ah! I know full well to what you allude; but never,
      never will I sell my rights for gold! No, my dear wife—my beloved daughter—we must prepare
      ourselves to meet our misfortunes in a becoming manner."  
  "Dear father," murmured Isabella, "your goodness has conferred upon me an excellent
      education: surely I might turn to advantage some of those accomplishments—"  
  "You, my sweetest girl!" cried the nobleman, surveying with feelings of ineffable pride the
      angelic countenance of the lovely being that was leaning upon his shoulder: "you—my own
      darling girl—a lady of your high rank become a governess! no—never, never!  
  "Isabella, you are worthy of your noble sire," said the countess enthusiastically.  
  And, even in the hour of their misfortune, that exiled—ruined family found inexpressible
      solace in the sweet balm of each other's love!  
  
  CHAPTER LXXVII. A WOMAN'S SECRET.  
  IT was now seven months since Ellen Monroe became the victim of George Greenwood.  
  She bore in her bosom the fruit of that amour; and until the present time she had managed to
      conceal her situation from those around her.  
  She now began to perceive the utter impossibility of veiling her disgrace much longer. Her
      health was failing; and her father and Markham were constantly urging upon her the necessity
      of receiving medical advice. This recommendation she invariably combated to the utmost of her
      power; and in order to give a colour to her assurance that she suffered only from some trivial
      physical ailment, she was compelled to affect a flow of good spirits which she was far—very
      far from experiencing.  
  Markham had frequently questioned her with the most earnest and friendly solicitude relative
      to the causes of those intervals of deep depression which it was impossible for her to
      conceal;—he had implored her to open her mind to him, as a sister might to a brother;—he had
      suggested to her change of scene, diversion, and other means of restoring her lost
      spirits;—but to all he advanced she returned evasive replies.  
  Richard and the aged father of the young lady frequently convened together upon the subject,
      and lost themselves in conjectures relative to the cause of that decaying health and
      increasing unhappiness for which the sufferer herself would assign no feasible motive. At
      times Mr. Monroe was inclined to believe that the privations and vicissitudes which his
      daughter had experienced during the two years previous to their reception at the hospitable
      dwelling of Richard Markham, had engendered a profound melancholy in a mind that had been so
      painfully harassed, and had implanted the germs of a subtle malady in a system never
      constitutionally strong. This belief appeared the more reasonable when the old man called to
      mind the hours of toil—the wearisome vigils—and the exposure to want, cold, and inclement
      weather, which had been endured by the poor girl in the court in Golden Lane; and Markham
      sometimes yielded to the same impression relative to the causes of a mental and physical
      decline which every day became more apparent.  
  Then, again, Richard thought that the fresh air of the healthy locality where she now dwelt,
      and the absence of all care in respect to the wherewithal to sustain life, would have produced
      a beneficial effect. He enjoined her father to question her whether she cherished some secret
      affection—some love that had experienced disappointment; but to this demand she returned a
      positive negative: and her father assured his young friend that Ellen had had no opportunity
      of obtaining the affection of another, or of bestowing her own upon any being who now slighted
      it. Of course her true position was never suspected for a moment; and thus the cause of
      Ellen's unhappiness remained an object of varied and conflicting conjectures.  
  Seven months had now passed since that fatal day when the accursed old hag, whose name we
      have not allowed to defile these pages, handed her over to the arms of a ruthless
      libertine;—seven months of mental anguish and physical suffering had nearly flown;—the close
      of July was at hand;—and as yet Ellen had decided upon no plan to direct her future
      proceedings. She sometimes thought of returning to Greenwood, and endeavouring to touch his
      heart;—but then she remembered the way in which they had parted on the occasion of her visit
      to his house in Spring-Gardens;—she recalled to mind all she knew of the character of the
      man;—and she was compelled to abandon this idea. She felt that she would sooner die than
      accept his succour in the capacity of a mistress;—and there were, moreover, moments when she
      entertained sentiments of profound hatred, and experienced a longing for revenge, against the
      man who refused to do her justice. Then, again, she recollected that he was the father of the
      child which she bore in her bosom; and all her rancorous feelings dissolved in tears.  
  At other times she thought of throwing herself at her father's feet, and confessing all. But
      what woman does not shudder at such a step? Moreover, frail mortals invariably place reliance
      in the chapter of accidents, and entertain hopes, even in situations where it is impossible
      for those hopes to be realised.  
  To Richard Markham she would not—dared not breathe a syllable that might lead him to infer
      her shame;—and yet, where was she to find a friend save in the persons of her father and her
      benefactor?  
   while others forgot their cares in the arms of slumber, was she a prey to an
      agony of mind which seemed to admit of no solace. And then, in those hours of intense
      wretchedness, would the idea of suicide steal into her mind—that idea which suggests a last
      resource and a sore relief as a term for misery grown too heavy for mortal endurance. But, oh!
      she trembled—she trembled in the presence of that dread thought, which each night assumed a
      shape more awfully palpable, more fearfully defined to her imagination. She struggled against
      the idea: she exclaimed, in the bitterness of her agony, "Get thee behind me, tempter;"—and
      yet there the tempter stood, more plainly seen, more positive in its allurement than ever!
      That poor, helpless girl balanced in her mind whether she should dare human scorn, or in one
      mad moment resign her soul to Satan!  
  There was a piece of water at the back of the house close by the main road; and thither
      would her footsteps lead her—almost unvoluntarily, for the tempter pushed her onward from
      behind;—thither would she repair at noon, to contemplate the sleeping waters of the lake
      within whose depths lurked one pearl more precious in the eyes of the unhappy than the
      brightest ornaments set in regal diadems,—the pearl of Oblivion! Thither did the lost one
      stray: upon the margin of that water did she hover like the ghost of one who had sought repose
      beneath that silver surface;—and, oh! how she longed to plunge into the shining water—and
      dared not.  
  At eve, too, when the sun had set, and every star on the dark vault above was reflected on
      the bosom of the lake, and the pure argent rays of the lovely moon seemed to fathom its
      mysterious depths,—then again did she seek the bank; and as she stood gazing upon the
      motionless pool, she prepared herself to take the one fatal leap that should terminate her
      sorrows—and dared not.  
  No—she shrank from suicide; and yet the time had now come when she most nerve herself to
      adopt some decided plan; for a prolonged concealment of her condition was impossible.  
  Markham's household consisted of Whittingham, Holford, and a female domestic of the name of
      Marian. This woman was a widow, and had been in the service of our hero only since his release
      from incarceration. She was between forty and fifty; and her disposition was kind, easy, and
      compassionate.  
  One night—about an hour after the inmates of the Place had retired to their chambers—Ellen
      was sitting, as usual, mournfully in her room, pondering upon her unhappy condition, and
      dreading to seek a couch where her ideas assumed an aspect which made her brain reel as if
      with incipient madness,—when she heard a low knock at her door. She hastened to open it; and
      Marian instantly entered the room.  
  "Hush, my dear young lady," she said in a whisper: "do not be alarmed;"—and she carefully
      closed the door behind her.  
  "What is the matter, Marian?" exclaimed Ellen "has any thing happened? is my father
      ill?"  
  "No, Miss—do not frighten yourself, I say," replied the servant. "I have come to console you
      for I can't bear to see you pining away like this—dying by inches."  
  "What do you mean, Marian?" said Ellen much confused.  
  "I mean, my dear Miss," continued the servant, "that if you won't think me impertinent. I
      might befriend you. The eyes of a woman are sharp and penetrating, Miss; and while every body
      else in the house is wondering what can make you so pale, and low-spirited, I do not want to
      conjecture to discover the cause."  
  "My God, Marian!" ejaculated the young lady, sinking into a chair; "you—you really frighten
      me: you mistake—you—"  
  And Ellen burst into tears.  
  The servant took her hand kindly, and said "Miss, forgive my boldness; but I am a woman—and
      I cannot bear to see one of my own sex suffer as you do. Besides, you are so good and
      gentle—and when I was ill a few weeks ago, you behaved with so much kindness to me, that my
      heart bleeds for you—it does indeed. I was coming down to you last night—and the night
      before—and the night before that too; but I didn't like to intrude upon you. And to-day I saw
      how very much you was altered; and I could restrain myself no longer. So, Miss, if I have done
      wrong, forgive me; for I have come with a good intention—and I would go a hundred miles to
      serve you. In a word, Miss, you require a friend—a faithful friend; and if you will confide in
      me, Miss, I will give you the best advice, and help you in the best way I can."  
  "Marian, this is very kind of you—very kind," answered Ellen, to whose ear these words of
      female sympathy came ineffably sweet; "but I shall be better soon—I shall get well—"  
  "Ah! Miss," interrupted Marian, soothingly, "don't hesitate to confide in me. I know what
      ails you—I understand your situation; and I feel for you deeply—indeed, indeed I do."  
  "Marian—"  
  "Yes, Miss: you cannot conceal it from others much longer. For God's sake take some step
      before you kill yourself and your child at the same time."  
  "Marian—Marian, what do you say?" exclaimed Ellen, sobbing violently, as if her heart would
      break.  
  "Miss Monroe, you will shortly become a mother!"  
  "Ah! my God—kill me, kill me! Save me from this deep degradation—this last disgrace!"  
  "Calm yourself, Miss—calm yourself; and I will be your friend," said Marian. "I have been
      thinking of your condition for some time past—and I have already settled in my mind a plan to
      save you!"  
  "To save me—to save me!" exclaimed Ellen. "Oh! how can I ever repay you for this
      kindness?"  
  "I am but a poor ignorant woman. Miss," answered Marian; "but I hope that I do not possess a
      bad heart. At all events I can feel for   you  ."  
  "A bad heart, Marian!" repeated Ellen. "Oh! no—you are goodness itself. But you said you had
      some plan to save me, Marian?"  
  "Yes, Miss. I have a sister, who is married and lives with her husband a few miles off. He
      is a market-gardener; and they have a nice little cottage. They will be delighted to do all
      they can for you."  
  "But how can I leave this house and remain absent for weeks without acquainting my
      benefactor Mr. Markham, and my poor old father? You forget, Marian—you forget that were I to
      steal away, and leave no trace behind me, it would break my father's heart."  
  "Then, Miss, you had better throw yourself at your father's feet, and tell him all."  
  "Never—never, Marian!" ejaculated Ellen, clasping her hands together, while her bosom heaved
      convulsively.  
  "Trust in Mr. Markham, Miss—let me break the truth to him?"  
    
  "And the person—the individual—the father of your child, Miss—" said the servant,
      hesitatingly.  
  "Mention not him—allude not to him," cried Ellen; then, after a pause, she added in a low
      and almost despairing tone, "No!—hope exists not there!"  
  "And yet, Miss," continued Marian, "you must make up your mind to something—and that soon.
      You cannot conceal your situation another fortnight without danger to yourself and the little
      unborn innocent. Besides, you have made no preparations, Miss; and if any sudden
      accident—"  
  "Ah! Marian, you remind me of my duty," interrupted Ellen. "I must not sacrifice the life of
      that being who has not asked me to give it existence—who is the innocent fruit of my shame,—I
      must not sacrifice its life to any selfish scruples of mine! Thank you, Marian—thank you! You
      have reminded me of my duty! come to me again to-morrow night, and I will tell you what step I
      have determined to take without delay!"  
  The servant then retired; and Ellen remained alone—alone with the most desolating,
      heart-breaking reflections.  
  At length her ideas produced a mental agony which was beyond endurance. She rose from her
      chair, and advanced towards the window, against the cold glass of which she leant her brow—her
      burning brow, to cool it. The moon shone brightly, and edged the clouds of night with silver.
      The eyes of the wretched girl wandered over the landscape, the outlines of which were strongly
      marked beneath the lustre of the moon; and amongst other objects, she caught sight of the
      small lake at a little distance. It shone like a pool of quicksilver, and seemed to woo her to
      its bosom.  
  Upon that lake her eyes rested long and wistfully; and again the tempter stood behind her,
      and urged her to seek repose beneath that shining surface.  
  She asked herself for what she had to live? She did not seek to combat the arguments of the
      secret tempter; but she collected into one focus all her sorrows; and at length the
      contemplation of that mass of misery strengthened the deep anxiety which she felt to escape
      from this world for ever.  
  And all the while she kept her eyes fixed upon the lake that seemed sleeping beneath the
      moonlight which kissed its bosom.  
  But her poor father! and the babe that she bore in her breast! Oh! no—she dared not die! Her
      suicide would not comprise one death only;—but it would be the death of a second, and the
      death of a third,—the death of her father, and the death of her still unborn child!  
  She turned away from the window, and hastened to seek her couch. But slumber did not visit
      her eyes. She lay pondering on the best course for her to pursue; but the more she reflected
      upon her condition, the farther off did she seem to wander from any settled point. At length
      she sank into an uneasy sleep; and her grief pursued her in her dreams.  
  She rose late; and when she descended to the breakfast-room she learnt that Richard Markham
      was about to depart immediately for the Continent. Whittingham was busily occupied in packing
      his master's baggage in the hall; and Holford had been despatched into town to order a
      post-chaise.  
  Markham explained this sudden movement on his part by placing a letter in Ellen's hand,
      saying at the same time, "This is from a man who has been a friend to me: I cannot hesitate a
      moment to obey his summons."  
  Ellen cast her eyes over the letter and read as follows:—  
  
  "Boulogne-sur-Mer, France,  
   "July 24, 1839.  
  "  My dear young Friend  ,  
  "If you can possibly dispose of your time for a few days, come to me at once. A severe
       accident—which may prove fatal—renders it prudent that I should attend to my worldly affairs;
       and to this end I require the assistance of a friend. Such I know you to be.  
    "THOMAS ARMSTRONG."    
  
  "The accident which my friend has met with must have been a serious one," said Markham, "or
      his letter would be more explicit. I feel deeply anxious to know the whole truth; for it was
      he who gave me courage to face the world, and taught me how to raise my head again, after my
      release from imprisonment;—he also introduced me to   one  ——"  
  Markham ceased: and for some moments his thought were bent wholly on Isabella.  
  At length the post-chaise arrived, and Richard departed on his journey, after bidding adieu
      to Mr. Monroe and Ellen, and having received a special request from the faithful Whittingham
      "to mind and not be conglomerated by any such fellers as Kidderminster and them wulgar chaps
      which called butlers   tulips  ."  
  
  CHAPTER LXXVIII. MARIAN.  
  IN the evening Ellen retired early to her apartment, for she felt very unwell; and certain
      sensations which she had experienced during the day had alarmed her.  
  A short time after she had withdrawn to the seclusion of her own chamber, the faithful and
      kind-hearted Marian made her appearance.  
  "This is very good of you, Marian," said Ellen. "I never felt the want of some one to talk
      to and console me, so much as I do to-night."  
  "You look very pale and ill, Miss," observed the servant: "had you not better retire to
      rest?"  
  "Yes," said Ellen. "I wish to struggle against a sense of weariness and oppression which
      comes over me; and I cannot."  
  "Heavens, Miss!—if any thing was to happen to you to-night—"  
  "It cannot be that, Marian; but I feel very, very ill."  
  Marian aided Miss Monroe to divest herself of her garments; and the young lady retired to
      her couch.  
  "How do you feel now, Miss?"  
  "Alas! I am not better, good Marian. I feel—I feel—"  
  "My God, Miss! you are about to become a mother this very night. Oh! what is to be done?
      what is to be done?"  
  "Save me, save me, Marian—do not suffer me to be exposed!" cried Ellen wildly.  
  "Why did I not speak to you before last night? We might have made some arrangement—invented
      some plan: but now—now, it is impossible!"  
  "Do not say it is impossible, Marian—do not take away every remaining hope—for I am
      wretched, very wretched."  
  "Poor young lady!" said Marian, advancing towards the bed, and taking Ellen's hand.  
  "It is not for myself that I care so much," continued the unhappy girl; "it is for my poor
      father. It would break his heart—oh! it would, break his heart!"  
  "And he is a good, kind old gentleman," observed Marian.  
   bitter cup of adversity," said Ellen, "that a blow like this would send him to
      his grave. I know him so well—he would never survive my dishonour. He has loved me so
      tenderly—he has taken such pride in me, it would kill him! Do you hear, Marian?—it would kill
      him. Ah! you weep—you weep for me, kind Marian!"  
  "Yes, Miss: I would do any thing I could to serve you. But now—it is too late—"  
  "Say not that it is too late!" ejaculated Ellen, distractedly: "say not that all chance of
      avoiding exposure has fled! take compassion on me, Marian; take compassion on my poor old
      father! Ah! these pains—"  
  "Tell me how I can serve you, Miss—"  
  "Alas! I cannot concentrate my ideas, Marian; I am bewildered—I am reduced to despair! Oh!
      if men only knew what bitter, bitter anguish they entail upon poor woman, when they sacrifice
      her to their desires—"  
  "Do not make yourself miserable, dear young lady," interrupted Marian, whose eyes were
      dimmed with tears. "Something must be done! How do you feel now?"  
  "I cannot explain my sensations. My mental pangs are so great that they almost absorb my
      bodily sufferings; and yet, it seems as if the latter were increasing every moment."  
  "There can be no doubt of it, Miss," said Marian. "Do you know that when I heard this
      morning of Mr. Markham's intended departure for France, it struck me at the moment that
      Providence interfered in your behalf. I do not know why such an idea should have come across
      me; for I could not foresee that you would be so soon overtaken with—"  
  "I feel that I am getting worse, Marian; can nothing be done? must my poor father know all?
      Oh! think of his grey hairs—his wrinkles! Think how he loves me—his only child! Alas! can
      nothing be done to save me from disgrace? How shall I ever be able to meet Mr. Markham again?
      Ah! Marian, you would not desert me in such a moment as this?"  
  "No, dear young lady—not for worlds!"  
  "Thank you, Marian! And yet forgive me if I say again, do not desert me—do not expose me!
      Oh! let me die rather than have my shame made known. Think, Marian—do you not know of any
      means of screening me?"  
  "I am bewildered," exclaimed the poor woman. "How do you feel now?"  
  "My fears augment, that—"  
  "Ah! it is premature, you see, Miss! What is to be done? what shall we do?"  
  "Marian, I beseech you—I implore you not to expose me!" said Ellen in a tone of such intense
      agony, that the good-hearted woman was touched to the very soul.  
  A sudden idea seemed to strike her.  
  "I know a young surgeon in the village—who is just married, and has only set up in business
      a few weeks—he is very poor—and he does not know where I am now in service."  
  "Do any thing you choose, Marian—follow the dictates of your own mind—but do not expose me!
      Oh! my God! what misery—what misery is this!"  
  "Yes," continued Marian, musing, "there is no other resource. But, Miss," she added, turning
      towards the suffering girl, "if I can save you from exposure, you must part with your child,
      should it be born alive!"  
  "I am in your hands: save me from exposure—for my poor old father's sake! That is all I
      ask."  
  "This, then," said Marian, "is the only alternative; there is nothing else to be done! And
      perhaps even   he   will not consent—"  
  "To whom do you allude?" demanded Ellen impatiently.  
  "To the young surgeon of whom I spoke. But I must try: at all events his assistance must be
      had. Miss, my plan is too long to tell you now: do you think it is safe to leave you alone for
      three quarters of an hour?"  
  "Oh! yes—if it be for my benefit, kind—good Marian," said Ellen. "But I must not be
      exposed—even to the surgeon!"  
  "The room must then be quite dark," observed Marian. "Do you mind that?"  
  Ellen shook her head.  
  "Then, take courage, Miss—and I think I can promise—but we shall see."  
  The servant then hastily extinguished the lights and left the room.  
  She hurried up to her own chamber, took from her box a purse containing forty sovereigns—all
      her little savings, put on her bonnet and shawl, concealed her face with a thick black veil,
      and then stole carefully down stairs.  
  All was quiet; and she left the house by the back door.  
  rend="stars" unit="subchapter"/ 
  In three quarters of an hour two persons advanced together up the garden at the back of the
      house.  
  One was a woman; and she led a man, whose eyes were blindfolded with a black
      handkerchief.  
  "Your hand trembles," said Marian—for she was the female alluded to.  
  "No," answered the surgeon. "But one word—ere I proceed farther."  
  "Speak—do not delay."  
  "You gave me forty pounds for this night's work. What guarantee do you offer me that the
      child—should it survive—will not be left on my hands, altogether unprovided for?"  
  "Trust to paternal affection, sir," answered Marian. "I can promise you that the child will
      not even remain long with you."  
  "Well, I will venture it," said the surgeon. "Your money will save me from being compelled
      to shut up my establishment after an unsuccessful struggle of only a few weeks; and I ought
      not to ask too many questions."  
  "And you remember your solemn promise, sir, not to attempt to obtain any clue to the place
      to which I am conducting you."  
  "On my honour as a man—on my solemn word as a gentleman."  
  "Enough, sir. Let us proceed."  
  Marian let the surgeon onward, and admitted him into the house by the back door.  
  All was still quiet.  
  We have said on a previous occasion that the mansion was a spacious one. Ellen's apartment
      was far removed from that in which her father slept; and the rooms occupied by Whittingham and
      Holford were on the uppermost storey. There consequently existed little chance of disturbing
      any one.  
  Marian led the surgeon very cautiously up the staircase to Ellen's chamber, which they
      entered as noiselessly as possible.  
    
  Ellen was in the pangs of maternity when Marian and the surgeon came to her assistance; and
      in a few moments after their arrival, she was the mother of a boy.  
  Oh! who can express her feelings when the gentle cry of the child fell upon her ears—that
      child from whom she was to part in a few minutes, perhaps for ever?  
  rend="stars" unit="subchapter"/ 
  Half an hour afterwards Marian and the surgeon were again threading the garden;—but this
      time their steps led them away from the house.  
  Beneath her thick shawl, carefully wrapped up, the servant carried Ellen's child.  
  She conducted the surgeon to within a short distance of his own abode, placed the child in
      his arms, and hurried rapidly away.  
  She returned to the Place, and ascended to Ellen's chamber without disturbing the other
      inmates.  
  "Ah! Marian," said Ellen, "how can I ever sufficiently thank you for your kindness of this
      night?"  
  "Silence, my dear young lady. Do not mention it! You must keep yourself very tranquil and
      quiet; and in the morning I must say that you are too unwell to rise."  
  "And that surgeon—"  
  "I know what you would ask, Miss," interrupted Marian. "All is safe and secret—the bandage
      was never raised from the surgeon's eyes from the moment he left his own house until he was
      far away from here again; nor did he once catch a glimpse of my face, for when I first went to
      explain the business to him and engage his assistance, he came down from his bed-chamber and
      spoke to me in the passage where it was quite dark. Moreover, I had taken my thick black veil
      with me by way of precaution. Therefore, he can never know me again."  
  "But the means of securing his assistance? how did you contrive that, Marian?"  
  "Well, Miss, if you must know," said the servant, after some hesitation, "I had saved up
      forty pounds—"  
  "And you gave him all!" exclaimed Ellen. "Oh! this was truly noble! However—I shall know how
      to repay you fourfold."  
  "We will speak of that another time, Miss," answered Marian. "You must now endeavour to
      obtain some sleep;—and I shall sit with you all night."  
  "Tell me one thing, Marian," said Ellen, with tears in her eyes;—"the child—"  
  "Will be well taken care of, Miss. Do not alarm yourself about that. And now you must try
      and obtain some repose."  
  In a few moments the young mother was overtaken by a profound sleep—the first she had
      enjoyed for many, many weeks. But even this slumber was not attended by dreams of unmixed
      pleasure: the thoughts of her child—her new-born child, entrusted to the care of strangers,
      and severed from the maternal bosom—followed her in her visions.  
  She awoke, considerably refreshed, at about seven o'clock in the morning.  
  The faithful Marian was still watching by her side, and had prepared her some refreshment,
      of which Ellen partook.  
  The young mother then asked for writing materials; and, in spite of the remonstrances of
      Marian, sate up in her bed, and wrote a letter.  
  When she had sealed and addressed it, she spoke in the following manner:  
  "Marian, I have now one favour to ask you. You have already given me such proofs of
      friendship and fidelity, that I need not implore you to observe the strictest secrecy with
      respect to the request that I am about to make. At the same time, I shall feel more happy if
      you will promise me, that under any circumstances—whether my shame remain concealed, or
      not—you will never disclose, without my consent, the name of the person to whom this letter is
      addressed, and to whom you must carry it as speedily as possible."  
  "You know, Miss, that I will do any thing I can to make you happy. Your secret is safe in my
      keeping."  
  "Thank you, Marian! My father would curse me—Mr. Markham would scorn me, did they know that
      I held communication with this man;"—and she showed the address upon the letter to Marian.  
  "Mr. Greenwood!" exclaimed the servant. "Ah! now I recollect—Whittingham has told me that he
      is the person who ruined your poor father, and robbed Mr. Markham of nearly all his
      property."  
  "And yet, Marian," said Ellen, "that man—that same Mr. Greenwood, who reduced my poor father
      to beggary, and plundered Mr. Markham—that very same individual is the father of my
      child!"  
  "Ah! Miss, now I understand how impossible it was for you to reveal your condition to your
      father, or to Mr. Markham. The blow would have been too severe upon both!"  
  "Yes, Marian—Mr. Greenwood is the father of my child; and more than that—he is—but no
      matter," said Ellen, suddenly checking herself. "You now know my secret, Marian; and you will
      never reveal it?"  
  "Never, Miss, I promise you most solemnly."  
  "And you will take this letter to him to-day—and you will wait for his reply."  
  "I will go this afternoon, Miss; and I will obey your wishes in every way."  
  "And now, Marian, hasten to tell my father that I am unwell; and resist any desire on his
      part to obtain medical assistance."  
  "Leave that to me, Miss. You already appear so much better that the old gentleman will
      easily be induced to suppose that a little rest is all you require."  
  "Ah! Marian—how can I ever reward you for all your goodness towards me?"  
  
  CHAPTER LXXIX. THE BILL.—A FATHER.  
  NOTHING could be more business-like than the study of Mr. Greenwood. The sofa was heaped up
      with papers tied round with red tape, and endorsed, some "Corn-Laws," others "New Poor Law," a
      third batch "Rottenborough Union," a fourth "Select Committee on Bribery at Elections;" and so
      on.  
  Piles of letters lay upon one table; piles of newspapers upon another; and a number of
      Reports of various Committees of the House of Commons, easily recognised by their unwieldy
      shapes and blue covers, was heaped up on the cheffonier between the windows.  
    
  It was about three o'clock in the afternoon. Mr. Greenwood had risen late, for the House had
      not separated until half-past two in the morning, and the member for Rottenborough was a man
      of too decidedly business-habits to leave his post in the middle of a debate.  
  Lafleur entered, and announced Sir Rupert Harborough.  
  "I have called about that bill again," said the baronet. "When it came due at the end of
      March, we renewed it for four months. It will be due again to-morrow."  
  "I am aware of it," said Greenwood. "What do you propose to do?"  
  "I am in no condition to pay it," answered the baronet.  
  "You must provide a portion, and renew for the remainder," said Greenwood.  
  "It is impossible, my dear fellow!" exclaimed Sir Rupert. "I am completely at low water-mark
      again, upon my honour!"  
  "And yet I have heard that you and Chichester have not been altogether unsuccessful in the
      play-world during the last few months," observed Greenwood.  
  "Not so prosperous as you may fancy," returned the baronet. "Come, what shall we say about
      this bill?"  
  "I have told you. The bill was originally given for fifteen hundred pounds—"  
  "For which I only had a thousand."  
  "I don't recollect now. At all events, it fell due; and fortunately I had not passed it
      away."  
  "Of course not. You promised to retain it in your portfolio."  
  "I don't recollect. You could not pay it; and I agreed to renew it—"  
  "On condition of making it sixteen hundred," said the baronet.  
  "I don't recollect," observed Greenwood again. "Now you come to me, and tell me that you can
      do nothing towards it. Things cannot go on so."  
  "But you knew very well, Greenwood, when you took it, that the day of payment might be
      rather distant."  
  "I don't recollect. You must bring me the six hundred, and I will renew for the
      thousand—without interest. There!"  
  "And where the devil am I to find six hundred pounds on a sudden like this?" exclaimed Sir
      Rupert.  
  "I am sure I am not aware of your private resources, my good sir," answered Greenwood,
      coolly. "You must be well aware that I cannot afford to remain without my money in this
      manner; and since it would appear you do not wish Lord Tremordyn to know that you have not
      paid the acceptance which he so kindly lent you—"  
  "Lent me!" ejaculated Sir Rupert, now really alarmed.  
  "Of course. He could not possibly have owed you the amount."  
  "Greenwood, what do you mean by this?" cried the baronet. "Upon my honour, one would almost
      suppose that you had forgotten the real nature of the transaction."  
  "Possibly I may not recall to mind some of the minor details. One thing is, however,
      certain: I have in my possession a bill bearing your endorsement and accepted by Lord
      Tremordyn, for sixteen hundred pounds; and I offer you the most easy terms I can think of for
      its payment."  
  "Greenwood, you cannot have forgotten—"  
  "Forgotten what?"  
  "Forgotten that the acceptance—"  
  "Well?"  
  "Is not Lord Tremordyn's."  
  "The acceptance not Lord Tremordyn's!" cried Mr. Greenwood, affecting to be quite confounded
      by this statement.  
  "Certainly not," answered the baronet. "You yourself suggested to me—"  
  "I suggested!" cried Greenwood, now pretending indignation. "Sir Rupert Harborough, what are
      you aiming at? to what point would you arrive?"  
  "Oh! if I were not in the power of this man!" thought the baronet, actually grinding his
      teeth with rage; but suppressing his feelings, he said, "My dear Greenwood, pray renew this
      bill for four months more, and it shall be paid at maturity."  
  "No, Sir Rupert Harborough," replied the capitalist, who had not failed to notice the
      emotions of concentrated rage which filled the mind of the baronet. "I am decided: give me six
      hundred pounds, and I renew for the thousand; otherwise—"  
  "Otherwise," repeated Sir Rupert mechanically.  
  "I shall pay the bill into my banker's this afternoon, and it will be presented for payment
      at Lord Tremordyn's agent's to-morrow morning."  
  "You would not wish to ruin me, Greenwood!"  
  "Such a course will not ruin you: Lord Tremordyn will of course honour his acceptance."  
  "Greenwood, you drive me mad!"  
  "I am really very sorry to hear it; but if every one who could not meet his bills were
      driven mad by being asked for payment of them, every third house in the street would become a
      lunatic-asylum."  
  "You can spare your raillery, Mr. Greenwood," said the baronet. "Do you wish to have me
      transported?"  
  "Certainly not. I want a proper settlement in this respect."  
  "And how can I settle the bill? Where am I to procure six hundred pounds at a moment's
      warning?"  
  "A moment's warning! you have had four clear months."  
  "But I fancied—I hoped you would renew the bill from time to time until I could pay it. You
      said as much when you lent me the money upon it."  
  "I don't recollect."  
  "You did indeed; and upon the faith of that promise, I—"  
  "I don't recollect."  
  "My God! what am I to do?" cried Sir Rupert, despairingly. "I have no means of raising half
      the sum you require."  
  "Then why did you take my money seven months ago?"  
  "Why did I take the money? why did I take it? Because you yourself proposed the transaction.
      You said, '  Bring me the acceptance of Lord Tremordyn for fifteen hundred pounds, and I
       will lend you a thousand upon it immediately.  '"  
  "I don't recollect."  
  "And you said emphatically and distinctly that   you should not call upon Lord Tremordyn
       to inquire if it were his acceptance  ."  
  "Of course not. Amongst gentlemen such a proceeding would be unpardonable."  
  "Oh! Greenwood, you affect ignorance in all this! and yet it was you who put the infernal
      idea into my head—"  
   infernal ideas into any one's head. Settle the bill in the way I propose; or it
      shall take its course."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "But—my God! you will send me to the Old Bailey!" cried the baronet, whose countenance was
      actually livid with rage and alarm.  
  "And did you not send Richard Markham thither?" said Greenwood, fixing his piercing dark
      eyes upon Sir Rupert Harborough in so strange a manner that the unhappy man shrank from that
      fearful glance.  
  "But what matters that to you?" cried the baronet. "In one word, will you ruin me? or will
      you give me time to pay this accursed bill?"  
  "I have stated my conditions: I will not depart from them," replied Greenwood in a
      determined manner. "You have plenty of time before you. I will keep the bill back until
      to-morrow morning at twelve o'clock."  
  "Very good, sir," said the baronet, scarcely able to repress his rage.  
  Sir Rupert Harborough then withdrew, a prey to feelings more easily imagined than
      described.  
  "Why should I allow this gambler to retain my money without even paying me the interest?"
      said Greenwood to himself, when he was again alone. "I can keep him in my power as well with a
      forged bill for a thousand, as for sixteen hundred pounds. As for his wife, the beautiful
      Cecilia—I am now wearied of that intrigue, which, moreover, becomes too expensive! Lady
      Cecilia's extravagance is unbounded. I must put an end to that connexion without delay!"  
  Lafleur entered the room at this moment, and said, "A female, sir, desires to see you upon
      particular business."  
  "Is it anybody whom you know?"  
  Lafleur replied in the negative.  
  "Never mind! I will see her," said Greenwood; and, unaware who she might be, he seated
      himself at his writing-table, where he appeared to be profoundly occupied with some deeds that
      were lying before him.  
  In a few moments Marian entered the room.  
  "Well, my good woman, what is the object of your call?" demanded Greenwood.  
  "I am the bearer of a letter, sir, from Miss Monroe," was the reply.  
    
  Its contents ran thus:—  
  
  "You are the father of a boy. The excellent woman who bears this will explain every thing
       to you. I should not recall myself to your memory—if you have forgotten the mother of your
       child—did not a sacred duty towards the female whom I have above alluded to, and towards the
       helpless infant who perhaps will never know a parent's care, compel me thus to address you.
       The kind woman who will give you this, expended forty pounds—all her little savings—to save
       me from disgrace. The surgeon to whose care the child is entrusted, must receive a small
       allowance for its support. If you ever entertained one generous feeling towards me, relieve
       my mind on these two subjects.  
    "ELLEN MONROE."    
  
  For some minutes Mr. Greenwood appeared to be absorbed in thought.  
  He then questioned Marian relative to the particulars of Ellen's accouchement; and she
      detailed to him every particular with which the reader is already acquainted.  
  "You managed the matter admirably," said Greenwood. "There are two points to which Miss
      Monroe directs my attention in this note. In the first place, she speaks of your most
      disinterested services. Accept this as a trifling mark of my gratitude:"—and he placed six
      Bank-notes for ten pounds each in Marian's hand.  
  "I do not desire any remuneration, sir," said the kind-hearted woman. "I will take my forty
      pounds; but the other two notes I must beg to return."  
  "No—keep them," exclaimed Greenwood.  
  "I thank you, sir, most sincerely," said the servant firmly; "but I would rather not. I
      rendered Miss Monroe that service which one female should afford another in such a case; and I
      cannot think of accepting any recompense."  
  With these words she laid two of the notes upon the table.  
  "You are really a most extraordinary woman," cried Greenwood, who was perfectly astonished
      at the idea of any one in her class of life refusing money. "Will you not permit me to offer
      you a ring—a watch—or some trinket—"  
  "No, sir," replied Marian, with severe firmness of tone and manner. "Miss Monroe is so
      kind—so good—so gentle, I would go to the end of the world to serve her."  
  "Well—you must have your own way," said Mr. Greenwood. "The next point in Miss Monroe's
      letter is a provision for her child. What sum do you suppose would content the surgeon and his
      wife who have taken care of it?"  
  "They are poor people, sir—struggling against difficulties—and having their way to make in
      the world—"  
  "Suppose we say forty pounds a year for the present," interrupted Greenwood.  
  "Oh! sir—that will be ample!" exclaimed Marian: "and Miss Monroe will be so rejoiced! Ah!
      sir—what consolation to the poor young lady!"  
  "What is the address of the surgeon?" demanded Greenwood.  
  "  Mr. Wentworth, Lower Holloway  ," was the reply.  
  "My servant shall call upon that gentleman this very evening, and carry him the first
      quarter's payment," continued Greenwood. "You can say to Miss Monroe—but stay: I will write
      her a few lines."  
  "Oh! do, sir. Who knows but it may console her?" ejaculated the kind-hearted Marian.  
  Mr. Greenwood wrote as follows:—  
  
  "Your wishes are attended to in every point. The existence of the child need never be known
       to either Mr. Monroe or Mr. Richard Markham. Keep faithfully   all the secrets   which
       are treasured in your bosom; and I will never desert the child. I will watch over its welfare
       from a distance: trust to me. You were wrong to hesitate to apply to me. My purse is at all
       times at your disposal—so long as those secrets remain undivulged.  
    "G. M. G."    
  
  Marian, prompted by that inherently kind feeling which had influenced her entire conduct
      towards Ellen, hesitated for a few moments, after receiving this letter, and seemed anxious to
      speak. She would have pleaded in behalf of the young mother: she would have implored Greenwood
      to make her his own in the sight of heaven, and acknowledge their child. But her tongue clave
      to the roof of her mouth;—and she at length retired, unable to give utterance to a single word
      in favour of poor Ellen.  
  As soon as she was gone, Greenwood rang for his faithful French valet.  
  "Lafleur," said he, "you will take these ten pounds, and proceed without delay to the house
      of Mr. Wentworth, a surgeon residing in Lower Holloway. You will say to him, '  The father
       of the child which was entrusted to you last night in so mysterious a manner, will allow you
       forty pounds a year for its support. As it grows older, and the expenses it incurs augment,
       this allowance will be proportionately increased. But should you endeavour to find out who
       are the parents of that child, it will instantly be removed to the care of others who may
       possess less curious dispositions.  '—You will pay him those ten pounds: you will tell him
      that every three months you will call with a similar sum; and you will see the child.
      Remember, you will see the child. If it have any peculiar mark about it, notice that mark: at
      all events, study it well, that you may know it again. You will moreover direct that its
      Christian name be   Richard  : its surname is immaterial. In a word, you will neither say
      nor do a whit more nor less than I have told you."  
  "I understand, sir," answered Lafleur. "Any further commands?"  
  "No—not at present. Be cautious how you conduct this business. It is delicate."  
  "You may depend upon me, sir."  
  And Lafleur retired.  
  "Thus far it is well," said Greenwood to himself, when he was again alone. "I am relieved of
      a subject of frequent annoying reflection and suspense. Ellen's shame is unknown to those from
      whom I was most anxious it should be concealed. It can never transpire now!"  
  The clock struck six; and Mr. Greenwood repaired to his dressing-room to arrange his toilet
      for dinner.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXX. THE REVELATION.  
  THAT same evening Mr. Chichester dined with his friend Sir Rupert Harborough, at the
      dwelling of the latter in Tavistock Square.  
  Whenever her husband invited this guest, Lady Cecilia invariably made it a rule to accept an
      invitation elsewhere.  
    
  "This is awkward—very awkward," said Chichester, when the cloth was removed, and the two
      gentlemen were occupied with their wine.  
  "Awkward! I believe you," exclaimed the baronet. "Upon my honour, that Greenwood ought to be
      well thrashed!"  
  "He is an insufferable coxcomb," said Chichester.  
  "A conceited humbug," added the baronet.  
  "A self-sufficient fool," remarked Chichester.  
  "A consummate scoundrel," cried Sir Rupert.  
  "So he is," observed Chichester.  
  "But all this will not pay my bill," continued the baronet; "and where to obtain six hundred
      pounds, the deuce take me if I can tell."  
  "No—nor I either," said Chichester; "unless we get a couple of horses and ride down towards
      Hounslow upon a venture."  
  "You never can be serious, Chichester? What! turn highwaymen!"  
  "I was only joking. But do you really think that Greenwood will press you so hard?"  
  "He will send the bill to Lord Tremordyn's banker's to-morrow. Oh! I can assure you he was
      quite high about it, and pretended to forget all the circumstances that had led to the
      transaction. To every word I said, it was '  I don't recollect  .' May the devil take
      him!"  
  "And so he has got you completely in his power?"  
  "Completely."  
  "And you would like to have your revenge?"  
  "Of course I should. But what is the use of talking in this manner? You know very well that
      I can do him no injury!"  
  "I am not quite so sure of that," said Chichester.  
  "What do you mean?" demanded the baronet. "I can see that there is something in your
      mind."  
  "I was only thinking. Suppose we accused him of something that he would not like exposed,
      and could not very well refute—an intrigue with any particular lady, for instance—"  
  "Ah! if we could—even though it were with my own wife," exclaimed the baronet. "And, by the
      bye, he is very intimate with Lady Cecilia."  
  "Of course he is," said Chichester drily. "Have you never noticed that before."  
  "It never struck me until now," observed the baronet.  
  "But it has struck me—frequently," added Chichester.  
  "And when I think of it," continued Sir Rupert Harborough, "he has often been here for an
      hour or two together; for I have gone out and left him with Lady Cecilia in the drawing-room;
      and when I have come back, he has been there still."  
  "Greenwood is not the man to waste his time at a lady's apron-strings for nothing."  
  "Chichester—you do not mean—"  
  "Oh! no—I mean nothing more than you choose to surmise."  
  "And what would you have me surmise?"  
  "I do not suppose," said Chichester, "that you care very much for Lady Cecilia."  
  "You are well aware of my feelings with regard to her."  
  "And out of all the money she has had lately—an affluence that you yourself have noticed
      more than once—she has never assisted you."  
  "No—never. And I have often puzzled myself to think whence came those supplies."  
  "You cannot suppose that either Lord or Lady Tremordyn replenish her purse?"  
  "Yes—I have thought so."  
  "Oh! very well; you know best;" and Chichester sipped his wine with an affected indifference
      which was in itself most eloquently significant.  
  "My dear fellow," said the baronet, after a pause, "I feel convinced that you have got some
      plan in your head, or else that you know more than you choose to say. In either case, Lady
      Cecilia is concerned. I have told you that I care not one fig about her—on my honour! Have the
      kindness, then, to speak without reserve."  
  "And then you may be offended," said Chichester.  
  "How absurd! Speak."  
  "What if I was to tell you that Lady Cecilia—"  
  "Well?"  
  "Is Greenwood's mistress!"  
  "The proof! the proof!" ejaculated the baronet.  
  "I myself saw them in each other's arms."  
  Sir Rupert Harborough's countenance grew deadly pale, and his lips quivered. He now revolted
      from the mere idea of what he had just before wished to be a fact.  
  "You remember the day that Greenwood called to acquaint us with his success at Rottenborough
      in March last?" said Chichester, after a pause. "You and I had been practising with the dice
      and cards; and we went out together."  
  "I recollect," exclaimed the baronet; "and you returned for the dice-boxes which you had
      left behind."  
  "It was upon that occasion. Greenwood followed me out of the drawing-room, and gave me a
      hundred pounds to keep the secret."  
  "True! you produced a hundred pounds immediately afterwards; and you said that Greenwood had
      lent you the amount. Why did you never tell me of this before?"  
  "The deuce! Is it a pleasant thing to communicate to a friend, Harborough? Besides, it
      always struck me that the discovery would one day or another be of some use."  
  "Of use indeed!" ejaculated the baronet. "And Lady Cecilia is Greenwood's mistress! Ah! that
      explains the restoration of her diamonds, as well as the improved condition of her finances.
      The false creature!"  
  "You must admit, Harborough," said Chichester, "that you have never been over attentive to
      your wife; and if—"  
  "Nonsense, my good fellow," interrupted the baronet sharply. "That is no excuse for a woman.
      A man may do what he chooses; but a woman—a wife—"  
  "Come, come—no moralizing," said Chichester. "It is all your own fault. Not one woman out of
      fifty would go wrong, if the husband behaved properly. But now that I have told you the
      secret, think what use you can make of it."  
  "I cannot see how the circumstance can serve me, without farther proof," remarked the
      baronet. "Ah! Lady Cecilia—what duplicity! what deceit!"  
  "Why not search her drawers—her boxes?" said Chichester. "She is absent; no one can
      interrupt you; and perhaps you may find a letter—"  
  "Excellent thought!" cried Sir Rupert; and, seizing a candle, he hurried from the room.  
  Twenty minutes elapsed, during which Mr. Chichester sate drinking his wine as comfortably as
      if he had done a good action, instead of revealing so fearful a secret to his friend.  
  At length Sir Rupert Harborough returned to the dining-room.  
   ghastly in his countenance, and sinister in the expression of his eyes.  
  "Well—any news?" inquired Chichester.  
  "No proof—not a note, not a letter," answered the baronet. "But I have found something," he
      added, with an hysterical kind of laugh, "that will answer my purpose for the moment better
      still."  
  "What is that?" asked his friend.  
  "Lady Cecilia's diamonds and other trinkets—presents, most likely, from Greenwood—together
      with ninety pounds in notes and gold."  
  "Capital!" cried Chichester. "You can now settle with Greenwood."  
  "Yes—I will pay him his six hundred pounds, renew for the remainder for three or four
      months, and then devise some plot to obtain undeniable proof of his amour with Lady Cecilia.
      But when I think of that woman, Chichester—not that she is any thing to me—still she is my
      wife—"  
  "Nonsense! It is fortunate for you that I told you of the affair, or else you would never
      have thought of using her property for the purpose of raising the sum you require."  
  "Ah! I will be revenged on that Greenwood!" cried Sir Rupert, in whose mind one idea was
      uppermost, in spite of his depraved and selfish disposition: "I will have the most signal
      vengeance upon the seducer of my wife! But remember, Chichester—I care nothing for
         her  ;—still the outrage—the dishonour—the perfidy! Yes—by God!" he added, dashing his
      clenched fist upon the table; "I will be avenged!"  
  "And in the mean time convert the diamonds and jewels into money," said Chichester. "It is
      only seven o'clock; we have plenty of time for the pawnbroker's."  
  "Come," cried the baronet, whose manner continued to be excited and irritable; "I am
      ready."  
  The two friends emptied their glasses, and took their departure, the baronet having
      carefully secured about his person the booty he had plundered from his wife. They then bent
      their steps towards the pawnbroking-establishment of Mr. V——, in the Strand.  
  What a strange type of all the luxury, dissipation, extravagance, profligacy, misery, ruin,
      and want, which characterise the various classes of society, is a pawnbroker's shop! It is the
      emporium whither go the jewels of the aristocrat, the clothes of the mechanic, the ornaments
      of the actress, and the necessaries of the poor. Genteel profligacy and pining industry seek,
      at the same place—the one the means for fresh extravagance, the other the wherewith to
      purchase food to sustain life. Two broad and direct roads branch off from the pawnbroker's
      shop in different directions; the first leading to the gaming-table, the second to the
      gin-palace; and then those paths are carried onwards, past those half-way houses of
      destruction, and converge to one point, at which they meet at last, and whose name is
      Ruin.  
  Two working men have been seen standing at the corner of a street, whispering together: at
      length one has taken off his coat, gone to the pawnbroker's, come out with the proceeds, and
      accompanied the other to the nearest gin-shop, where they have remained until all the money
      raised upon the garment was expended. Again, during the absence from home of the hard-working
      mechanic, his intemperate wife has collected together their few necessaries, carried them to
      the pawnbroker's, and spent the few shillings, thus procured, on gin. The thief, when he has
      picked a pocket of a watch, finds a ready means of disposing of it at the pawnbroker's.
      Hundreds of working-men pledge their Sunday garments regularly every Monday morning, and
      redeem them again on Saturday night.  
  Are pawnbrokers' shops a necessary evil? To some extent they are. They afford assistance to
      those whom some pressing urgence suddenly overtakes, or who are temporarily out of work. But
      are not the facilities which they thus present to all classes liable to an abuse more than
      commensurate with this occasional advantage? Decidedly. They supply a ready means for drink to
      those who would hesitate before they sold their little property out-and-out; for every one who
      pawns, under such circumstances, entertains the hope and intention of redeeming the articles
      again. The enormous interest charged by pawnbrokers crushes and effectually ruins the poor. We
      will suppose that a mechanic pledges his best clothes every Monday morning, and redeems them
      every Saturday night for wear on the Sabbath: we will presume that the pawnbroker lends him
      one pound each time:—they will thus be in pawn 313 days in each year, for which year he will
      pay 3  s.   8  d.   interest, and 4  s.   4  d.   for duplicates—making a
      total of 8  s.   Thus he pays 8  s.   for the use of his own clothes for 52
      days!  
  If the government were really a paternal one—if it had the welfare of the industrious
      community at heart, it would take the system of lending money upon deposits under its own
      supervision, and establish institutions similar to the Mont de Piété in France. Correctly
      managed, demanding a small interest upon loans, such institutions would become a blessing:—now
      the shops of pawnbrokers are an evil and a curse!  
  Sir Rupert Harborough entered the pawnbroker's shop by the front door, while Mr. Chichester
      awaited him in the Lowther Arcade. The baronet was well known in that establishment; and he
      accordingly entered into a friendly and familiar chat with one of the young men behind the
      counter.  
  "That is a very handsome painting," said Sir Rupert, pointing to one suspended to the
      wall.  
  "Yes, sir. It was pledged fifteen months ago for seven pounds, by a young nobleman who had
      received it along with fifty pounds in cash the same morning by way of discount for a thousand
      pound bill."  
  "And what do you expect for it?"  
  "Eighty guineas," answered the young man coolly. "But here is one much finer than that,"
      continued the pawnbroker's assistant, turning towards another painting. "That expired a few
      days ago. It was only pledged for thirty guineas."  
  "And how much have you the conscience to ask for it?"  
  "One hundred and twenty," whispered the young man. "There is something peculiar connected
      with that picture. It belonged to an upholsterer who was once immensely rich, but who was
      ruined by giving credit to the Duke of York."  
  "To the Duke of York—eh?"  
  "Oh! yes, sir: we have received in pledge the goods of many, many tradesmen who were once
      very wealthy, but who have been reduced to absolute beggary—starvation—by his late Royal
      Highness. We call the pillar in Saint James's Park the   Column of Infamy  ."  
    
  "What! the diamonds again?" exclaimed the assistant.  
  "Oh! yes—they come and go, like good and bad fortune—'pon my honour!" said Sir Rupert.  
  "Like the jewels of many others at the West-End," added the assistant; and, having made out
      the duplicates, he handed Sir Rupert over the sum required.  
  On the following morning the baronet paid Mr. Greenwood the six hundred pounds, and gave a
      new bill for a thousand at four months, for which the capitalist was generous enough not to
      charge him any interest.  
  There was nothing in the baronet's conduct to create a suspicion in Mr. Greenwood's mind
      that his intrigue with Lady Cecilia was detected; but when the transaction was completed, Sir
      Rupert hastened to consult with his friend Chichester upon some plan for obtaining positive
      evidence of that amour.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXI. THE MYSTERIOUS INSTRUCTIONS.  
  AT the expiration of ten days from the mysterious accouchement of Ellen Monroe, Richard
      Markham returned home.  
  It was late at night when he alighted at his dwelling; but, as he had written two days
      previously to say when his arrival might be expected, Mr. Monroe and Whittingham were sitting
      up to receive him.  
  Richard's countenance was mournful; and he wore a black crape round his hat.  
  "You have lost a kind friend, Richard," said Mr. Monroe. "Your hasty letter acquainted us
      with the fact of Mr. Armstrong's death; but you gave us no details connected with that
      event."  
  "I will now tell you all that has occurred," said Richard. "You need not leave the room,
      Whittingham: you knew Mr. Armstrong, and will be, no doubt, interested in the particulars of
      his last moments."  
  "I knowed him for a staunched and consisting man in his demmycratical opinions," answered
      Whittingham; "and what's more comportant, he thought well of you, Master Richard."  
  "He was an excellent man!" observed Markham, wiping away a tear.  
  "Worth a thousand Ilchesters, and ten thousand wulgarians which calls butlers
         tulips  ," added Whittingham, dogmatically.  
  "I will tell you the particulars of his death," continued Richard, after a pause. "You
      remember that I received a letter from Mr. Armstrong, written in a hurried manner, and
      desiring me to repair to him in Boulogne, where he was detained by an accident which, he
      feared, might proved fatal. I posted to Dover, which town I reached at about five in the
      evening; and I found that no packet would leave for France until the following morning. The
      condition of my friend, as I judged of it by his note, seemed too serious to allow me to
      delay: I accordingly hired a vessel, and proceeded without loss of time to Boulogne, where I
      arrived at eleven that same night, after a tolerably rough passage. I hurried to the hotel at
      which my friend was staying, and the card of which he had enclosed in his letter. I found him
      in bed, suffering from a fearful accident caused by the overturning of the chaise in which he
      had arrived at Boulogne from Paris, on his way to England. No limbs were broken: but he had
      sustained internal injuries of a most serious nature. A nurse was seated at his bed-side; and
      his medical attendant visited him every two or three hours. He was delighted to see
      me—wept—and said frequently, even up to the moment of his decease, 'Richard, this is very—very
      kind of you.' I sate up with him all that night, in spite of his entreaties that I would
      retire to rest; and from the first moment that I set my eyes upon him in that room, I felt
      convinced he would never leave it alive. I need not tell you that I did all I could to solace
      and render comfortable the man who had selected me, of all his acquaintances, to receive his
      last breath. I considered myself honoured by that mark of friendship; and I moreover
      remembered that he had believed in my innocence when I first told him my sad tale within the
      walls of Newgate. I never left him, save for one hour, from the instant I arrived in Boulogne
      until that of his death."  
  "Poor Master Richard," said Whittingham, surveying the young man with affectionate
      admiration.  
    
  "Good old man!" exclaimed Whittingham, applying his snow-white handkerchief to his eyes.  
  "According to the French laws," continued Richard, "interments must take place within
      forty-eight hours after death. The funeral of Thomas Armstrong was humble and unostentatious
      as he desired. The physician and myself alone followed him to the tomb. I then inspected his
      papers; but found no will—no instructions how his property was to be disposed of; and yet I
      knew that he was possessed of ample means. Having liquidated his debts with a portion of the
      money I found in his desk, and which amounted to about a hundred pounds, I gave the remainder
      to an English charity at Boulogne. And now you are no doubt anxious to know the contents of
      that packet so mysteriously delivered to me. When I broke the seal of the envelope, I found a
      letter addressed thus:—'  To my dear friend Richard Markham  .' This letter was sealed. I
      then examined the envelope. You shall yourselves see what was written within it."  
  Markham took a paper from his pocket, and handed it to Monroe, who read its contents aloud
      as follows:—  
  
    "Richard, remember your solemn promise to a dying man; for when I write this, I know
        you will not refuse to give me that sacred pledge which I shall ask of you.    
    "When you are destitute of all resources—when adversity or a too generous heart shall
        have deprived you of all means of subsistence—and when your own exertions fail to supply
        your wants, open the enclosed letter.    
    "But should no circumstances of any kind deprive you of the little property which you
        now possess,—and should you not be plunged into a state of need from which your own talents
        or exertions cannot relieve you,—then shall you open this letter upon the morning of the
        10th, of July, 1843, on which day you have told me that you are to meet your
       brother.    
    "These directions I charge you to observe faithfully and solemnly.    
    "THOMAS ARMSTRONG."    
  
  "How very extraordinary!" ejaculated Monroe. "Nevertheless, I have a presentiment that these
      mysterious instructions intend some eventual good to you, Richard."  
  "It's a fortin! a fortin! depend upon it," said the old butler.  
  "Upon that head it is useless to speculate," observed Richard. "I shall obey to the very
      letter the directions of my late friend, be their tendency what it may. And now that I have
      told you all that concerns myself, allow me to ask how fares it with you here. Does Ellen's
      health improve?"  
  "For the last ten days she has been confined to her bed," answered Monroe, tears starting to
      his eyes.  
  "Confined to her bed!" cried Markham. "I hope you have had proper medical advice?"  
  "I wished to call in the aid of a physician," said Monroe, "but Ellen would not permit me.
      She declared that she should soon be better; she assured me that her illness was produced only
      by the privations and mental tortures which she had undergone, poor creature! previous to our
      taking up our abode in your hospitable dwelling; and then Marian was so kind and attentive,
      and echoed every thing which Ellen advanced, so readily, that I suffered myself to be
      over-persuaded."  
  "You did wrong—you did wrong, Mr. Monroe," exclaimed Markham. "Your daughter should have had
      medical advice; and she shall have it to-morrow."  
  "She appears to be mending in health, though not in spirits," observed Monroe. "But my dear
      young friend, you shall have your own way; and I thank you sincerely for the interest you show
      in behalf of one who is dear—very dear to me."  
  Richard pressed the hand of the old man, and retired to his chamber, to seek that repose of
      which he stood so much in need after his journey. But ere he sought his couch, he sate down
      and wrote the following note to Count Alteroni, that it might be despatched to Richmond
      without delay in the morning:—  
  
  "Mr. Markham regrets to be the means of communicating news of an afflicting nature to Count
       Alteroni; nor should he intrude himself again upon Count Alteroni's notice, did he not feel
       himself urged by a solemn duty to do so in the present instance. Count Alteroni's old and
       esteemed friend, Thomas Armstrong, is no more. He departed this life four days ago, at
       Boulogne-sur-Mer. Mr. Markham had the melancholy honour of closing the eyes of a good man and
       true patriot, and of following his remains to the tomb."  
  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXII. THE MEDICAL MAN.  
  IN the morning, when Ellen awoke at about eight o'clock, the first news she heard from
      Marian's lips was the return of Richard Markham.  
  The first sentiment which this announcement excited in the mind of the young lady, was one
      of extreme joy and thankfulness that her accouchement should have occurred so prematurely, and
      thus have happened during his absence; but this feeling was succeeded by one of vague alarm
      and undefined dread, lest by some means or other her secret should transpire.  
  This fear she expressed to Marian.  
  "No, Miss—that is impossible," said the faithful attendant. "The child is provided for; and
      the surgeon is totally ignorant of the house to which he was brought the night the poor infant
      was born. How could Mr. Markham discover your secret?"  
  "It is perhaps my conscience, Marian, that alarms me," returned Ellen; "but I confess that I
      tremble. Do you think that Mr. Wentworth is to be relied upon, even if he should suspect or
      should ever discover—"  
  "Mr. Greenwood has purchased his silence, Miss. Do not be down-hearted. I declare you are
      quite white in the face—and you seem to tremble so, the bed shakes. Pray—dear Miss—don't give
      way to these idle alarms!"  
  "I shall be more composed presently, Marian."  
  "And I will just step down stairs and get up your breakfast."  
  When Ellen was alone, she buried her face in the pillow and wept bitterly; and from time to
      time her voice, almost choked with sobs, gave utterance to the words—"My child! my child!"  
  Oh! how happy would she have been, could she have proclaimed herself a mother without shame,
      and have spoken of her child to her father and her friend without a blush.  
  In a few minutes Marian returned to the room; and Ellen hastened to assume an air of
      composure. She wiped away her tears, and sate up in the bed, supported by pillows—for she was
      yet very weak and sickly—to partake of some refreshment.  
  "Mr. Markham is up and has already gone out," said Marian, as she attended upon her lovely
      young patient. "He left word with Whittingham to tell me that he should come up, and see you
      on his return in half an hour."  
    
  "So you said, Miss, in the morning after your accouchement, when your father was coming up
      to see you; and yet all passed off well enough."  
  "Yes—but I felt that I blushed, and then grew deadly pale again, at least ten times in a
      minute," observed Ellen.  
  Marian said all she could to re-assure the young mother; and when the invalid had partaken
      of some tea, the kind-hearted servant left her, in order to attend to her own domestic duties
      down stairs.  
  Ellen than fell into a mournful reverie, during which she reviewed all the events of the
      last two years and a half of her life. She pondered upon the hideous poverty in which she and
      her father had been plunged in the court leading out of Golden Lane; she retrospected upon the
      strange services she had rendered the statuary, the artist, the sculptor, and the
      photographer; she thought of the old hag who had induced her to enter upon that career;—and
      then she fixed her thoughts upon Greenwood and her child.  
  She was thus mentally occupied when she heard footsteps ascending the staircase; and
      immediately afterwards some one knocked at her door.  
  In a faint voice she said, "Come in."  
  The door opened, and Richard Markham entered the apartment; but, as he crossed the
      threshold, he turned and said to some one who remained upon the landing, "Have the kindness to
      wait here one moment."  
  He then advanced towards the bed, and took the young lady's thin white hand.  
  "Ellen," he exclaimed, "you have been very ill."  
  "Yes—very ill, Richard," returned the invalid, casting down her eyes; "but I am better—oh!
      much, very much better now; and, in a day or two, shall be quite well."  
  "And yet you are very pale, and sadly altered," said Markham.  
  "I can assure you that I am recovering fast. Indeed, I should have risen to-day; but Marian
      persuaded me to keep my bed a short time longer."  
  "And you have had no medical advice, Ellen. I told your father that he had done wrong—"  
  "Oh! no, Richard," interrupted Ellen eagerly; "he was anxious to call in the aid of a
      physician; but I was not so ill as he thought."  
  "Not ill!" ejaculated Markham. "You must have been very—very ill."  
  "But Marian was so kind to me."  
  "No doubt! Nevertheless I have no confidence in the nostrums and prescriptions of old
      servants and nurses; and human existence is too serious a thing to be tampered with."  
  "I assure you, Richard, that Marian has treated me most judiciously; and I am now very
      nearly quite well."  
  "Ah! Ellen," cried Markham, "I can read your heart!"  
  "You, Richard!" exclaimed the young lady, with a cold shudder that seemed to terminate in a
      death-chill at the heart.  
  "Yes," continued Markham, his voice assuming a tone of melancholy interest; "I can well
      appreciate your motives in combating the desire of your father to procure medical aid. You
      were afraid of burdening me with an expense which you feared my restricted means would not
      permit me to afford;—Oh! I understand your good feeling! But this was wrong, Ellen; for I did
      not invite you to my house to deny to either yourself or father the common attentions which I
      would bestow upon a stranger who fell sick under my roof. No—thank God! I have yet enough left
      to meet casualties like these."  
  "Ah! Richard, how kind—how generous you are," said Ellen; "but I am now really much
      better;—and to-morrow—to-morrow I shall be quite well."  
  "No—Ellen, you are very far from well," returned Markham; "but you shall be well soon. I
      have been myself this morning to procure you proper advice."  
  "Advice?" repeated Ellen, mechanically.  
  "Yes: there is a medical gentleman now waiting to see you."  
  With these words Richard hastened to the door, and said, "Miss Monroe, sir, is now ready to
      receive you. I will leave you with her."  
  The medical man then entered the chamber; and Markham immediately retired.  
  The votary of Æsculapius was a man of apparently five-and-twenty years of age—pale, but
      good-looking, with light hair, and a somewhat melancholy expression of countenance. He was
      attired in deep black. His manners were soft and pleasing; but his voice was mournful; and his
      utterance slow, precise, and solemn.  
  Approaching the couch, he took the hand of the invalid, and, placing his fingers upon the
      pulse, said, "How long have you been ill, Miss?"  
  "Oh! sir—I am not ill now—I am nearly well—I shall rise presently—the fresh air will do me
      good," exclaimed Ellen, speaking with a rapidity, and almost an incoherence, which somewhat
      surprised the medical man.  
  "No, Miss," he said calmly, after a pause, "you cannot leave your bed yet: you are in a
      state of fever. How long have you been confined to your couch?"  
  "How long? Oh! only a few days—but, I repeat, I am better now."  
  "How many days, Miss?" asked the medical man.  
  "Ten or twelve, sir; and, therefore, you see that I have kept my bed long enough."  
  "What do you feel?" demanded the surgeon, seating himself by the side of the invalid with
      the air of a man who is determined to obtain answers to his questions.  
  "I did feel unwell a few days ago, sir," said Ellen; "but now—oh! now I am quite
      recovered."  
  "Perhaps, miss, you will allow me to be the judge of that. You are very feverish—your pulse
      is rapid. Have you been taking any medicine?"  
  "No—that is, a little cooling medicine which the servant who attends upon me purchased. But
      why all these questions, since I shall soon be well?"  
  "Pardon me, Miss: you must have the kindness to answer all my queries. If, however, you
      would prefer any other medical adviser, I will at once acquaint Mr. Markham with your desire,
      and will relieve you of my presence."  
  "No, sir—as well you as another," cried Ellen, scarcely knowing what she said, and shrinking
      beneath the glance of mingled curiosity and surprise which the surgeon cast upon her.  
  "During your illness were you at all delirious?" inquired the medical adviser.  
  "Oh! no—I have not been so ill as you are led to suppose. All I require is
      repose—rest—tranquillity——"  
  "And professional aid," added the surgeon. "Now, I beg of you, Miss Monroe, to tell me
      without reserve what you feel. How did your illness commence?"  
    
  "And you say that you have been confined to your bed nearly a fortnight?"  
  "Oh! no—not so long as that," said Ellen fearful of confirming the surgeon's impression that
      she had been very ill, and consequently stood greatly in need of professional assistance: "not
      so long as that! Ten days exactly."  
  "Ten days!" repeated the medical man, as if struck by the coincidence of this statement with
      something which at that moment occurred to his memory; then glancing rapidly round the room,
      he started from his chair, and said, "Ten days ago, Miss Monroe! And at what hour were you
      taken ill?"  
  "At what hour?" repeated the unhappy young lady, who trembled for her secret.  
  "Yes—at what hour?" demanded the surgeon, the slow solemnity of his tone changing to a
      strange rapidity of utterance: "was it not a little before midnight?"  
  "Sir—what do you mean? why do you question me thus?"  
  "On that night," continued the surgeon, gazing fixedly upon Ellen's countenance, "a man with
      his eyes blind-folded—"  
  "His eyes blindfolded?" repeated Ellen mechanically, while a fearful shudder passed through
      her frame.  
  "Led by a servant wearing a black veil—"  
  "A black veil?"  
  "Entered this room—"  
  "Ah! my God—spare me!"  
  "And delivered a lady of a male child."  
  "How do you know it, sir? who told you?"  
  "That man was myself!" cried the surgeon emphatically.  
  "Oh! kill me—kill me!" exclaimed Ellen; and covering her face with her hands, she burst into
      an agony of tears and heart-wrung sobs.  
  "Yes," continued the surgeon, pacing the room, and glancing rapidly on all sides: "there is
      the chest of drawers against which I dashed my foot—here stood the bed—here the table—I sate
      down in this chair—Oh! now I remember all!"  
  And for some moments he walked up and down the room in profound silence.  
  Suddenly Ellen started up to a sitting posture in the bed, and exclaimed, "My child, sir?
      Tell me—have you taken care of my child?"  
  "Yes—Miss—Madam," replied Mr. Wentworth; "the little boy thrives well, although deprived of
      his natural nourishment."  
  "Thank you, sir—thank you at least for that assurance," said Ellen. "Oh! sir—you cannot
      understand how deeply a mother feels to be separated from her child!"  
  "Poor girl," said the surgeon, in a compassionate tone; "you have then suffered very
      much?"  
  "God alone knows what I have endured for months past, mentally and bodily!" cried Ellen,
      clasping her hands together. "And now you know all, sir—will you betray me? say, sir—will you
      betray me?"  
  Mr. Wentworth appeared to reflect deeply for some moments.  
  Ellen awaited his reply in a state of the most agonising suspense.  
  "Miss Monroe," at length said Mr. Wentworth, speaking in his usual solemn and grave tone,
      "you know your own affairs better than I; but would it not be well to confide in those friends
      by whom you are surrounded?"  
  "I would die first—die by my own hand!" answered Ellen emphatically. "If you tell me that
      you will betray me—if you leave this room to communicate my secret to Mr. Markham, who brought
      you hither, or to my father—I will not hesitate a moment—I will throw myself from the
      window—"  
  "Calm yourself, Miss Monroe. Your secret is safe in my hands."  
  "Oh! thank you, sir—a thousand times I thank you," exclaimed Ellen. "There are circumstances
      which render it necessary that this secret should not transpire—circumstances, not altogether
      connected with my own shame, which I cannot, dare not reveal to you."  
  "Enough, Miss Monroe—I do not seek to penetrate into those mysteries. Your child is with
      me—I will be a father to him!"  
  "And heaven will bless you!" said Ellen pressing the surgeon's hand with the warmth of the
      most fervent gratitude.  
  "In time you will be able to call at my house," observed Mr. Wentworth; "and you can see
      your son—you can watch his growth—mark his progress—"  
  "How kind you are! Oh! now I am rejoiced that you know all!"  
  "And no one will ever suspect the real motive of your visits," continued the surgeon. "Mrs.
      Wentworth shall call upon you in a few days; and thus an acquaintance may be commenced. With
      reference to my visit of this morning, I shall inform Mr. Markham that you will be
      convalescent in a few days."  
  Ellen once more expressed her sincere and heartfelt thanks to the surgeon, who shortly took
      his leave of her, after strictly recommending her to take the medicaments which he should send
      in the course of the day.  
  And now the recovery of the young invalid progressed rapidly; and her own mind, relieved of
      many sources of anxiety and alarm, aided nature in conducting her to convalescence; for she
      longed to behold and caress her child!  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXIII. THE BLACK CHAMBER AGAIN.  
  A FEW days after the incidents just narrated, the following letters were opened in the Black
      Chamber of the General Post-Office.  
  The first was from the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs of Castelcicala to the
      representative of that state at the British court:—  
  
  "  Montoni, Castelcicala.    
   delay; as you will perceive, by the inclosed copy of a ducal ordinance issued
       this morning, that the infatuation above alluded to grows to a very dangerous point.  
  "The undersigned avails himself of this opportunity to state that the Marquis of Gerrano is
       greatly afflicted at the perverse and obstinate conduct of the Prince Alberto, in steadily
       refusing the offers of a pension for life made by the government of his reigning Highness
       through your excellency. The Marquis of Gerrano desires your Excellency to redouble your
       assiduity in inducing the prince to accept the terms proposed, for which purpose a farther
       delay of three months will be granted; and should his reply then continue unfavourable, the
       government of his Highness will adopt measures to ensure the succession to the ducal throne
       of Castelcicala to a Neapolitan Prince.  
  "The undersigned renews his expressions of perfect consideration toward your
       excellency.  
  "BARON RUPERTO, "Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.  
  "  July 13, 1839.  "  
  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The following is a copy of the ducal ordinance to which reference was made in the above
      letter:—  
  
  "ANGELO III., BY THE GRACE OF GOD, GRAND DUKE OF CASTELCICALA,  
  "To all present and to come, Greeting:  
  "We have ordered and do order that which follows:—  
  "I. The style and title of Marchioness of Ziani are conferred upon the Signora Eliza
       Sydney.  
  "II. A pension of one thousand ducats annually shall be paid to the Marchioness of Ziani
       from the public treasury.  
  "III. Our Minister Secretary of State for the Department of the Interior will execute the
       first article of this ordinance; and our Minister Secretary of State for the Department of
       Finance will execute the second article.  
  "  By the Grand Duke  , ANGELO III. "MARQUIS OF VINCENZA, "Minister of the
       Interior.  
   "COUNT OF MARCOTTI, "Minister of Finance.  
  "  July 13, 1839.  "  
  
  The next letter, read in the Black Chamber upon this occasion, ran as follows:—  
  
  "  Montoni, Castelcicala.    
   assured you that his highness never once insulted me by hinting at the
       possibility of a connexion upon any other terms than those of marriage; and when he proposed
       a morganatic union, it was merely in accordance with the practice of many European
       sovereigns. I however expressed myself firmly to his serene highness upon this head, stating
       that, although a morganatic marriage was perfectly valid so far as the religious ceremonies
       went, still it was not strictly legal, and would not please those who wished me well in
       England.  
  "In my last letter I informed you that some one had represented to the Grand Duke my
       misfortunes in England. Happily this announcement failed to produce any change in his conduct
       or views with regard to me, as I had previously made him acquainted with all those
       particulars, of my own accord.  
  "In a word, my dearest Diana, his Serene Highness has offered me his hand,—offered to raise
       me to a seat by his side on the ducal throne,—offered to make me his bride in sight of the
       world. Could I refuse? or why should I? You ask me if I can love his Serene Highness? Ah! how
       can I help revering one who shows such love for me? And then, human nature has its weak
       points; and rank, honour, wealth, and distinction cannot fail to attract even one naturally
       so retiring as myself. Oh! how pleasant will it be to possess riches and influence for the
       mere purpose of doing good!  
  "Well, then—all is decided: I am to be Grand Duchess of Castelcicala. The marriage is to
       take place in six weeks from the present date. The daughters of General Grachia are to be my
       bridesmaids. As a preliminary step towards this high honour, the Grand Duke has conferred
       upon me a title and a pension. To the world I am now the Marchioness of Ziani: to you, Diana,
       I am still, and always shall be—Eliza Sydney.  
  "I was surprised to learn from you that the villain Montague Greenwood has succeeded in
       obtaining a seat in the English Parliament. Ever since I have had power and wealth in the
       prospective, I have meditated upon the best means of protecting others from that villany
       which he designed against me, but which providence so signally frustrated. At length I
       thought of a plan, and despatched a trusty person to England a few days ago to execute it.
       This person has instructions from me to call upon you on his arrival in England, and
       communicate to you my scheme. He is also the bearer of a trifling token of my sincere
       friendship and gratitude towards you, dear Diana, and which little token I hope you will
       accept for my sake.  
  "I need scarcely say that you will oblige me by tendering my best thanks to the Earl of
       Warrington for the kind advice he sent me through you, and renew to him the expression of my
       eternal gratitude for all he has done for me.  
  "You shall hear again shortly from your devoted and attached  
    "ELIZA SYDNEY.    
  "  July 13, 1839.  "  
  
  The third letter read upon this occasion, was addressed to Count Alteroni, Richmond, and ran
      in the following manner:—  
  
  "  Montoni, Castelcicala  ,  
   "  July 13, 1839.    
  "Things, my lord, are growing towards a crisis in this country. No. 29 is literally
       infatuated with No. 1. He has this morning created her a marchioness: and in a month or six
       weeks he will, it is said, espouse her. There is no possibility of preventing this, No. 29
       being quite despotic; and now his foolish ministers see their mistake in having maintained
       him in his absolutism, and refused the country a constitution."  
  
  "Number 29, you will understand," interrupted the Examiner, "evidently means the Grand Duke;
      and No. 1 represents Eliza Sidney. Proceed."  
  The clerk who read the letter continued as follows:—  
  
  "The ministers know not what to do. They are at their wits' end. I know for a fact that
       they obtained from England certain information relative to No. 1, which proved that she had
       been in a criminal gaol; but No. 29 made no account of it. No. 1 is very beautiful;
       fascinating in manners; somewhat shy and reserved; and yet amiable. She is also accomplished.
       When she first came to Montoni she spoke the Italian language imperfectly: she now speaks it
       fluently;—and this knowledge she has acquired in a few months. There can be no doubt that she
       will exercise an immense influence over No. 29, if she choose to make use of it. And who
       knows what a woman, suddenly rising from private life to the first ducal throne in the world,
       may do? She does not, however, seem to be ambitious. Nevertheless, something ought to be
       done. If this marriage take place, you are well aware that issue may follow, for No. 1 is
       young; and in that case * * * * I really think that if your lordship were to land suddenly
       upon the Castelcicalan coast, without delay, this union might be prevented. I hinted to your
       lordship in my last letter the immense ascendancy gained by No. 1 over No. 29: your
       lordship's reply astonished me. Your lordship states that if No. 29 choose to marry according
       to his fancy, no human power has a right to control him. With due deference, is not this
       carrying liberality of opinion a little too far? Your lordship expresses a determination to
       trust to the issue of events, and do nothing that may stand the chance of plunging the
       country into a civil war. These self-denying sentiments are no doubt highly patriotic and
       noble;—but is it in human nature to resign without a struggle * * * * In any case I am your
       lordship's faithful servant, and am anxious only to execute your lordship's wishes. I
       therefore await your lordship's instructions.  
    "NUMBER 17."    
  
  "You have taken copies of these letters?" said the Examiner.  
  "Yes, sir," replied the clerk thus addressed.  
  "Then let them be immediately conveyed to the office of the Secretary of State for Foreign
      Affairs, as their contents are highly important."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  And this order was forthwith obeyed.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXIV. THE SECOND EXAMINATION.—COUNT ALTERONI.  
  FORTY-two days after the appearance of Mr. Tomlinson's name in the   Gazette  , among
      the category of Bankrupts, the second examination of this gentleman took place at the
      Bankruptcy Court in Basinghall Street.  
  In an arm-chair, behind a desk raised upon a species of dais, sate the commissioner,
      embellished with a wig and gown. Close under the desk was placed the registrar, also with wig
      and gown; and two or three barristers, who were retained in the case, were similarly adorned.
      In a sort of pew on the right of the commissioner sate the official assignee, with a pile of
      books and papers before him. About two hundred persons thronged the room—most of whom, by
      their sullen and sinister looks, might be easily recognised as the creditors of the bankrupt.
      At a distance from the box in which witnesses were placed during examination, stood Count
      Alteroni, with folded arms and severe countenance.  
  A few moments before eleven o'clock a bustle was heard near the door; and a whisper of
      "Here's the trade assignee," ran through the crowd.  
  Mr. Greenwood entered the court with a patronising smile upon his countenance, and an easy
      kind of gait, as if he were by no means dissatisfied with himself. He was dressed in the most
      elegant manner; and his left hand played negligently, as usual, with the costly gold chain
      that festooned over his waistcoat.  
  As he passed through the crowd of his friend's creditors, many of whom were known to him, he
      addressed a few words in an off-hand and patronising manner to those whom he recognised at the
      moment.  
   with you, I suppose!—Well, Mr. Chivers, how do   you   do? Any thing new on
      the Stock-Exchange? I believe you don't suffer much by this business of Tomlinson's, do
      you?"  
  "Only three thousand—that's all!" returned Mr. Chivers, with a smile which would have turned
      new milk sour.  
  "Oh! a mere song!" exclaimed Greenwood, tossing up his head. "Well, Vokes, are you here? you
      don't mean to say that you're wasting your time in this manner, eh?—Ah! Tullett, my good
      friend—delighted to see you. Why, how well you do look, to be sure!" (Mr. Tullett was in a
      rapid decline; and he "grinned horribly a ghastly smile" at this salutation.)  
  In this manner did Mr. Greenwood work his way through the crowd, until he reached the desk
      of the official assignee, by the side of whom he took a seat.  
  "Where's the bankrupt?" exclaimed the clerk of the court in a loud and imperious tone of
      voice, while Mr. Greenwood bestowed one of his patronising smiles upon the Commissioner.  
  "Here," replied Tomlinson; and he stood forward close by the witness-box.  
  He was pale and altered; and the marks of care and anxiety were visible upon his
      countenance. The glance he cast around him, as he took his stand in the presence of the
      Commissioner, was hurried and fearful:—he almost dreaded that the face of Michael Martin would
      meet his eyes as he thus hastily scanned the crowd by whom he was surrounded. But his alarm
      was without foundation: the old cashier was not there.  
  The examination of the bankrupt then commenced.  
  In answer to the questions put to him, he stated that had he delivered in to the assignees
      as full and complete a statement of his affairs as the loss of his books (which had been
      abstracted by the cashier at the time of the robbery) would permit.  
  Mr. Greenwood observed that the accounts were highly satisfactory, and would doubtless
      please every creditor present. It was, however, unfortunate that the estate would not pay a
      single farthing in the pound.  
  "Very unfortunate indeed," growled a creditor.  
  "I would much rather have heard that there was a dividend, than that the accounts are so
      very satisfactory," murmured another.  
  "Mr. Tomlinson's creditors cannot complain of him, your Honour," said Mr. Greenwood to the
      Commissioner: "on the contrary, they have every reason to be perfectly satisfied with him. He
      has given up every thing—"  
  "Why, there was nothing left to give up!" ejaculated Mr. Vokes.  
  "Nothing left to give up!" cried Mr. Greenwood, casting a stern glance upon the unfortunate
      creditor; "permit me, sir, as the trade-assignee duly chosen at the last meeting—permit me,
      sir, to inform you that there were the desks, counters, stools, and various fixtures of the
      bank—all of which Mr. Tomlinson surrendered in the most honourable and straightforward manner,
      and which have realized a hundred and eighty-one pounds, seventeen shillings, and sixpence,
      for the benefit of the estate."  
  "Well—and what has become of that sum?" demanded Mr. Vokes.  
  "Consumed by the expenses of the   fiat  ," answered Mr. Greenwood coolly. "But, as I
      was observing, your Honour, when I was interrupted—interrupted in a most indecent manner—the
      position of Mr. Tomlinson is a most honourable one—"  
  "Perhaps it is even enviable," said the consumptive creditor, drily.  
  "And I for one," added Mr. Greenwood, "shall certainly sign his certificate."  
  "Have no tidings been heard of the cashier who absconded?" inquired the Commissioner.  
  "None, sir," answered the official assignee and Mr. Greenwood simultaneously.  
  "What has become of the bankrupt's furniture at his private residence?" demanded a
      creditor.  
  "His landlord issued a distress for a year's rent the moment the bank stopped," answered
      Greenwood. "The amount due to this most hard-hearted and unfeeling landlord is a hundred and
      twenty pounds, and the furniture would not fetch more at an auction. I therefore, with the
      full concurrence of the official assignee, allowed that very harsh man to keep the goods."  
  A barrister, who had been retained for one of the creditors, then proceeded to examine Mr.
      Tomlinson.  
  "You allege that about ninety-four thousand pounds were abstracted from the bank by the
      fugitive cashier?"  
  "I do—or as nearly as I can guess."  
  "And yet, by this balance-sheet, I perceive that your liabilities are two hundred thousand
      pounds. Were you not insolvent when the robbery was perpetrated?"  
  "It would appear so, certainly."  
  "Then how do you account for that immense deficiency?"  
  "I can account for it in no other manner than by presuming that my cashier had carried on a
      systematic mode of plunder for some years past; but as I placed implicit reliance on him, I
      was never led to an investigation of my actual position."  
  "Do you mean to say that your cashier embezzled many thousand pounds every year?"  
  "I am afraid that such was the fact."  
  The barrister asked no farther questions.  
  Another opposing counsel interrogated the bankrupt relative to his affairs; but Tomlinson's
      replies were given in a manner which afforded no scope for suspicion.  
  Ah! none divined how much it cost that unhappy man thus to heap shame and infamy upon the
      head of a faithful old clerk, who had never wronged him of a shilling!  
  The case terminated by the declaration of the commissioner that the bankrupt had passed his
      second examination.  
  Tomlinson was glad to escape from the frightful ordeal to which his feelings had been
      subjected for two mortal hours; and, while he hurried home to conceal his emotions from every
      eye, and meditate upon his condition in private, Mr. Greenwood busied himself in obtaining
      signatures for his certificate. This was an easy matter to a man of the financier's powers of
      persuasion; and that very afternoon the names of four-fifths of the bankrupt's creditors were
      attached to the parchment which was to relieve him of all past embarrassments.  
  When Greenwood took the certificate to Tomlinson in the evening, he said, "My dear fellow,
      you will soon be a new man. In one-and-twenty days this document will have passed the Lord
      Chancellor and the Court of Review, and be duly registered in Basinghall Street. I will then
      lend you a thousand pounds,   at only twenty per cent.    
  "Which I would have given up to my creditors, had you permitted me," said Tomlinson
      sorrowfully.  
  "Nonsense, my dear fellow! Never give away what you can keep by a little manœuvring. Your
      landlord can now withdraw his friendly seizure, and all will be well."  
  "Nothing will render me happy until I find out that poor old man who has so nobly, so
      generously sacrificed himself for me," observed Tomlinson in a tone of deep dejection. "What
      can have become of him?"  
  "Oh! do not bother yourself about him," cried Greenwood impatiently. "He will turn up one of
      these days; and then you can remunerate him handsomely."  
  "Ah! that would indeed be a moment of supreme happiness for me!" ejaculated Tomlinson.  
  "Yes," continued Greenwood, musing: "a five-pound note will recompense the old fellow well
      for his conduct."  
  "A five-pound note!" repeated Tomlinson. "Can you be in earnest, Greenwood?"  
  "Well, if you think it is too much, give him a couple of sovereigns," said Greenwood,
      coolly. "But I must take leave of you now: I am compelled to devote a couple of hours this
      evening to the interests of that free and enlightened body whom I have the honour to represent
      in parliament. So, adieu, Tomlinson; and when your certificate is registered, come to me."  
  Mr. Greenwood then took his departure from the bankrupt's abode.  
  "The heartless villain!" cried Tomlinson, when the door had closed behind the financier;
      then, after a long pause, he added, "and yet his ingenuity has saved me from eternal
      degradation and shame!"  
  In the mean time Count Alteroni returned to his dwelling at Richmond. He reached home at
      about five o'clock in the evening, and found his wife and daughter anxiously awaiting his
      arrival. The moment he entered the drawing-room, the ladies cast a timid and yet inquiring
      glance towards him; and their hearts sank within them when their eyes caught sight of his
      severe and sombre expression of countenance.  
  "My dear wife—my beloved daughter," he said, advancing towards them, and taking the hand of
      each in his own, "my worst fears are confirmed. The bank will not pay one sixpence of
      dividend: Greenwood has contrived to get his fellow-conspirator clear of the tribunal; and the
      creditors have not a hope left. It was with the greatest difficulty that I could so far master
      my feelings as to avoid an interference in those most iniquitous proceedings. But my
      position—my rank forbade me from attempting aught to expose those villains. And now, my dear
      wife—now, my charming Isabella—prepare yourselves to hear the worst. We are ruined!"  
  "Ruined!" exclaimed both the countess and her daughter at the same moment.  
  "Oh! no," added Isabella: "we have many friends, my dear father."  
  "To whom I will not apply," said the count, proudly. "No—we must wrestle with our evil
      fortunes, and trust to the advent of better times. At present every thing seems to conspire to
      crush us; and should that contemplated marriage take place in Castelcicala——"  
  "My dearest husband," interrupted the countess, "do not aggravate present griefs by the
      apprehension of that which as yet only menace us. It is scarcely possible that the Grand Duke
      will perpetrate such a folly."  
  "And that title of Marchioness of Ziani—and that pension,—do they not speak volumes?" cried
      the count bitterly. "Oh! there are moments when I feel inclined to listen to the
      representations of those faithful friends in my own country with whom I correspond, and who
      are ever counselling me to——"  
  "Ah! my dearest father," exclaimed Isabella, bursting into tears; "would you endanger that
      life which is so precious to my mother and myself? would you plunge your native land in the
      horrors of a civil war? Oh! let us dare all our present ills with firmness and resolution; and
      if there be a guardian Providence—as I devoutly believe—he will not allow us to be persecuted
      for ever!"  
  "Noble girl!" cried the count; "you teach me my duty;"—and he embraced his lovely daughter
      with the utmost warmth and tenderness.  
  "Yes," said the countess, fondly pressing her husband's hand, "we are crushed only for a
      time. Our course is now clear:—we must give up our present establishment; and—as we have,
      thank God! no debts——"  
  "Ah! it is that which cuts me to the very soul!" interrupted the count. "You are not yet
      acquainted with the extent of our misfortunes. A brave fellow countryman of mine, who
      supported me in all the plans which I endeavoured to carry out for the welfare of the
      Castelcicalans, and who was driven into exile on my account, was imprisoned in London a few
      months ago for a considerable sum of money. I could not leave him to perish in a gaol. I
      became answerable for him—and the creditor is now pressing me for the payment of the
      debt."  
  "And what is the amount of this liability?" inquired the countess, hastily.  
  "Eighteen hundred pounds," was the reply.  
  "Do not suffer that to annoy you, my dearest father," exclaimed Isabella. "My jewellery and
      superfluous wardrobe will produce——"  
  "Alas! my dearest child," interrupted the count, "all that we possess would not realize any
      thing like that sum. But, happen what will, our first step must be to give up this furnished
      mansion, and retire to a more humble dwelling. That will not cost us many pangs. We shall
      still be together; and our love for each other constitutes our greatest happiness."  
  "Yes, my dearest husband," said the countess; "even a prison should not separate us."  
  "Where my beloved father is—where my parents are—there am I happy," murmured Isabella, the
      pearly tears trickling down her cheeks.  
  Oh! in that hour of his sorrow, how sweet—how sweet upon the ears of that noble Italian
      sounded the words, "husband" and "father," which, coupled with tender syllables of
      consolation, came from the lips of the two affectionate beings who clung to him so fondly. The
      lovely countenance of his daughter—so beautiful, that it seemed rather to belong to the
      ethereal inhabitants of heaven than to a mortal denizen of earth—was upturned to him; and her
      large black eyes, shining through her tears, beamed with an ineffable expression of tenderness
      and filial love.  
   thy teeth white as the orient pearl;—thy young bosom heaved beneath the gauze
      which veiled it;—purity sat upon thy lofty brow, like a diadem which innocence confers upon
      its elect! Very beautiful wast thou, Isabella—charming exotic flower from the sweet Italian
      clime!  
  "Yes, my beloved wife—my darling daughter," said the count; "we are ruined by my mad
      confidence in that villain Greenwood. You know that there is one means by which I could obtain
      wealth and release us from this cruel embarrassment. But never would either of you wish to see
      me sell my claims and resign my patriotism for gold! No—dearest partakers of my sad destinies,
      that may not be! I shall ever reject the offers of my persecutors with scorn; and until
      fortune may choose to smile upon us, we must learn to support her frowns with
      resignation."  
  "That same Almighty power which afflicts and chastises, can also restore gladness, and
      multiply blessings," said Isabella, solemnly.  
  A servant now entered the room to announce that dinner was served in another apartment.  
  Assuming a cheerful air, the count led his wife and daughter to the dining-room, and partook
      of the repast with a forced appetite, in order to avoid giving pain to those who watched all
      his movements and hung upon all his words with such tender solicitude.  
  After dinner, the count, still pondering upon the scene in which a tender wife and
      affectionate daughter had administered to him such sweet consolation, and experiencing a
      delicious balm in the domestic felicity which he enjoyed, said to Isabella, "Read me from your
         Album  , my dear girl, those lines which a poet is supposed to address to his wife,
      and which always possess new charms for me."  
  Isabella hastened to obey her father's wishes, and read, in a soft and silver tone, the
      following stanzas:—  
    THE POET TO HIS WIFE.    
  
  When far away, my memory keeps in view,  
  Unweariedly, the image of my wife;  
  This tribute of my gratitude is due  
  To her who seems the angel of my life—  
  The guiding star that leads me safely through  
  The eddies of this world's unceasing strife;—  
  Hope's beacon, cheering ever from afar,  
  How beautiful art thou, my guiding star!  
  Our children have thy countenance, that beams  
  With love for him who tells thy virtues now;—  
  Their eyes have caught the heavenly ray which gleams  
  From thine athwart the clouds that shade my brow,  
  Like sunshine on a night of hideous dreams!—  
  The first to wean me from despair art thou;  
  For all th' endearing sentiments of life  
  Are summed up in the words   Children   and   Wife  .  
  The mind, when in a desert state, renews  
  Its strength, if by Hope's purest manna fed;  
  As drooping flowers revive beneath the dews  
  Which April mornings bountifully shed.  
  Mohammed taught (let none the faith abuse)  
  That echoes were the voices of the dead  
  Repeating, in a far-off realm of bliss,  
  The words of those they loved and left in this.  
  My well-beloved, should'st thou pass hence away,  
  Into another and a happier sphere,  
  Ere death has also closed my little day,  
  And morn may wake no more on my career,  
  "I love thee," are the words that I shall say  
  From hour to hour, during my sojourn here.  
  That thou in other realms may'st still be found  
  Prepared to echo back the welcome sound.  
  
  Scarcely had Isabella finished these lines, when a servant entered the room, and announced a
      Mr. Johnson, "who had some pressing business to communicate, and who was very sure that he
      shouldn't be considered an intruder."  
  Mr. Johnson—a queer-looking, shabby-genteel, off-hand kind of a man—made his appearance
      close behind the servant, over whose shoulder he leered ominously.  
  "I b'lieve you're Count Alteroni, air you?" was Mr. Johnson's first question.  
  "I am. What is your business with me?"  
  "I'm come from Rolfe, the attorney, in Clements' Inn," was the reply: "he—"  
  "Oh! I suppose he has sent you to say that he will accord me the delay I require?"
      interrupted the count.  
  "Not quite that there neither," said the man; then, sinking his voice to a mysterious
      whisper, and glancing towards the ladies with an air of embarrassment, he added, "The fact is,
      I've got a execution agin your person—a   ca-sa  , you know, for eighteen hundred and
      costs."  
  "A writ—a warrant!" ejaculated the count aloud. "You do not mean to say that you are come to
      take me to prison?"  
  "Not exactly that either," replied Mr. Johnson. "You needn't go to quod, you know. You can
      come to our lock-up in the New-Cut, Lambeth, where you'll be as snug as if you was in your own
      house, barring liberty."  
  "I understand you," said the count; then, turning to his wife and daughter, he added, "My
      dears, the evil moment is arrived. This person is a bailiff come to arrest me; and I must go
      with him. I implore you not to take this misfortune to heart:—it was sure to happen; and it
      might just as well occur to-day as a week or a month hence."  
  "And whither will they take you?" asked the countess, bursting into tears. "Cannot we be
      allowed to accompany you?"  
  "You can come, ma'am, and see his lordship to-morrow," said the bailiff; "and you can stay
      with him from ten in the morning till nine in the evening—or may-be till half-arter ten as a
      wery partick'lar faviour—for which you'll on'y have to pay half a sufferin extray. But there's
      my man."  
  A sneaking kind of knock—something more than a single one, not so much as a double one, and
      by no means as bold as a postman's—had been heard the moment before the bailiff uttered these
      last words; and while he went in person to inform his acolyte that the caption was made, and
      that he might wait in the hall, the count endeavoured to soothe and console the two afflicted
      ladies who now clung to him in the most impassioned and distracted manner.  
  "To-morrow, my dear father—to-morrow, the moment the clock strikes ten, we will be with
      you," said Isabella. "Oh! how miserably will pass the hours until that period!"  
  "Will you not   now   permit me, my dearest husband, to see the Envoy of Castelcicala,
      and—"  
  "No," answered the count firmly. "Did we not agree ere now to support with resignation all
      that fortune might have in store for us?"  
  "Ah! pardon me—I forgot," said the countess. "I am overwhelmed with grief. Oh! what a
      blow—and for   you  !"  
  "Show yourselves worthy of your high rank and proud name," cried the nobleman; "and all will
      yet be well."  
  At this moment the bailiff returned to the room.  
  "I am now ready to accompany you," said the count.  
   but I've heerd say you keeps a wery tidy cabrioily."  
  "It would be a monstrous mockery for any one to proceed to a prison in his own luxurious
      vehicle," said the count sternly. "As you came, so may you return. I will accompany you in an
      omnibus."  
  The count embraced his wife and daughter tenderly, and with much difficulty tore himself
      away, in order to leave a comfortable home for a miserable sponging-house.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXV. A FRIEND IN NEED.  
  TEN days after the arrest of Count Alteroni, a young lady was proceeding, at about eleven
      o'clock in the forenoon, down the Blackfriars Road.  
  She was dressed plainly, but with that exquisite taste which denotes a polished mind, and is
      in itself an aristocracy of sentiment. She looked neither to the right nor to the left: her
      pace was somewhat rapid, as if she were anxious to arrive at her destination:—and though there
      was something timid in her manner as she threaded her way along the crowded thoroughfare, few
      who passed her could help turning round to obtain another glimpse of the sylph-like form of
      that unassuming girl.  
  From the opposite direction advanced a young man of tall and handsome appearance, neatly
      dressed, and with a shade of melancholy upon his countenance.  
  In a few moments he met the young lady, and was about to pass her, when his eyes happened to
      catch a glimpse of her lovely features.  
  He started with surprise, exclaiming, "Signora! is it possible? Do we indeed meet again? Ah!
      it seems to me that it is an age since I saw you, dearest Isabella!"  
  "And since we last met, Richard, many unfortunate events have happened. My poor father—"  
  "Your father! what can have happened to him?" cried Markham, struck by the mournful tone of
      the beauteous Italian.  
  "He is in the Queen's Bench Prison," replied Isabella, her eyes filling with tears.  
  "In the Queen's Bench! And you are going to him now? Oh! Isabella, you must tell me how all
      this happened: I will escort you a little way;"—and with these words, Richard offered his arm
      to the signora, who accepted it with a ready confidence in him whom she loved, and whose
      presence was by no means displeasing to her at that moment when she stood so much in need of
      consolation.  
  "You are aware," resumed Isabella, "that my father intrusted a considerable sum of money to
      Mr. Greenwood."  
  "The villain!" ejaculated Markham warmly.  
  "I cannot explain to you exactly how it was that my father accepted the security of Mr.
      Tomlinson, the banker, for that amount, as I am not acquainted with matters of business;—but
      he did so, and released Mr. Greenwood."  
  "And Tomlinson failed—and your father lost all!"  
  "Alas! he did;—and he is now imprisoned for a sum for which he had become answerable to
      serve a friend," said Isabella.  
  "How long has the count been in—in—"  
  "In prison," added the signora mournfully. "He was arrested ten days ago; and, by the advice
      of a solicitor, he removed on the following day from the bailiff's private house to the
      Bench."  
  "And the countess?"  
  "My mother is very unwell to-day, and could not leave her room; and I am now on my way to
      visit my poor father. We have left Richmond altogether; and my mother and myself occupy
      lodgings in the Blackfriars Road, near the bridge."  
  "Ten days ago this happened, Isabella," said Richard reproachfully; "and you did not
      acquaint me with what had occurred?"  
  "Ah! Richard—you know well that circumstances forbade me;—or else—"  
  "Or else? Speak—dearest Isabella."  
  "Or else I believe you would have given my father the best advice how to proceed. He is too
      proud to apply to his friends; and he cannot—he must not remain in prison. His health would
      sink under the idea of degradation that has taken possession of him."  
  "That villain Greenwood!" said Markham, musing. "When will the day of retribution arrive for
      him?"  
  "We must now part, Richard," observed Isabella, as they came in view of the dingy wall of
      the Queen's Bench Prison, crowned by   chevaux-de-frise  .  
  "Yes—we must part again," said Markham mournfully. "But how happy should I have been had we
      met this morning under other circumstances! How I should have blessed the accident that
      brought me thus early this morning on some business of my own, to this neighbourhood! Oh!
      Isabella, you know not how constantly I think of you—how unceasingly I dwell upon your dear
      image!"  
  "And can you suppose, Richard, that I never devote a thought to you?" said Isabella, in a
      low and plaintive tone. "But we must not talk upon such a subject at present. Let us hope for
      happier times."  
  With these words the young lady returned the pressure of her lover's hand, and hurried
      towards the Queen's Bench.  
  Markham loitered about the spot for five minutes, and then proceeded to the lobby of the
      prison. There he inquired into the particulars of Count Alteroni's detention; and ascertained
      that he had been arrested for eighteen hundred pounds, with costs.  
  He then left the gloomy precincts of the debtors' gaol, and retraced his steps towards the
      City.  
  "Eighteen hundred pounds would procure the count's liberation," he said to himself:
      "eighteen hundred pounds, which he does not possess, and which he is too proud to
      borrow,—eighteen hundred pounds, which would restore him to his family, and make Isabella
      happy! My property is worth four thousand pounds:—if I raise two thousand pounds upon it, I
      shall curtail my income by exactly one half. I shall have one hundred pounds a-year remaining.
      But my education was good—my acquirements are not contemptible: surely I can turn them to some
      account?"  
  Then it suddenly struck him that he had already raised five hundred pounds upon his estate
      at the period when the Resurrection Man endeavoured to extort that sum from him; and half of
      this sum had already disappeared in consequence of the amount given to Talbot (  alias  
      Pocock) in the   Dark-House  —the assistance rendered to Monroe and Ellen—his journey to
      Boulogne—and other claims. Then there would be the expenses of deeds to reckon. If he raised
      two thousand pounds more, his property would only remain worth to him about fifteen hundred
      pounds. His income would therefore be reduced to seventy-five pounds   per annum    
  But not for one moment did this noble-hearted young man hesitate relative to the course he
      should pursue; and without delay he proceeded to the office of Mr. Dyson, his solicitor, in
      the City.  
  There the business was speedily explained and put in train. It would, however, require, said
      the solicitor, four days to terminate the affair; but Markham did not leave him until he had
      fixed the precise moment when the deeds were to be signed and the money paid over.  
  Richard returned home in a state of mind more truly happy than he had known for some time
      past. He had resolved upon an immense sacrifice, to benefit those whom he esteemed or loved;
      and he was prepared to meet any consequences which it might produce. This is human nature. We
      may inure ourselves to the contemplation of any idea, however appalling or alarming it may
      appear at first sight, without a shudder and almost without a regret. The convict, under
      sentence of death in the condemned cell, and his ears ringing with the din of the hammers
      erecting the scaffold, does not experience such acute mental agony as the world are apt to
      suppose. We all have the certainty of death, at some date more or less near, before our eyes;
      and yet this conviction does not trouble our mental equanimity. The convict who is doomed to
      die, is only worse off than ourselves inasmuch as the precise day, hour, and moment of his
      fate are revealed to him; but his death, which is to be sudden and only of a moment's pain,
      must be a thousand times preferable to the long, lingering, agonising throes of sickness which
      many of those who pity him are eventually doomed to endure before their thread of existence
      shall be severed for ever!  
  Yes—we can bring our minds to meet every species of mortal affliction with resignation, and
      even with cheerfulness;—and there is no sorrow, no malady, no pang, which issued from
      Pandora's box, that did not bear the imprint of hope along with it!  
  True to the appointed time, Richard proceeded to the office of Mr. Dyson, on the fourth day
      from the commencement of the business.  
  He signed the papers and received two thousand pounds.  
  The lawyer shook his head, implying his fears that his client was improvident and
      wasteful.  
  He was, however, speedily undeceived.  
  "Will you have the kindness to accompany me in a cab?" said Markham. "You can render me a
      service in the way in which I am about to dispose of this money."  
  "Certainly," returned Mr. Dyson, "Are you going far?"  
  "Not very," answered Richard; and when they were both seated in the vehicle, he told the
      driver to proceed towards the Queen's Bench Prison, but to stop at some distance from the
      gates.  
  These directions were obeyed.  
  "Now, Mr. Dyson," said Richard, "will you have the kindness to repair to the office of the
      prison, and inquire the amount of debts for which a certain Count Alteroni is detained in
      custody?"  
  Mr. Dyson obeyed the instructions thus given to him, and in ten minutes returned from the
      prison with a   copy of causes   in his hand.  
  "Count Alteroni is a prisoner for eighteen hundred and twenty-one pounds," said the
      lawyer.  
  "Are there any fees or extra expenses beyond the sum specified in that paper?" asked
      Richard.  
  "Yes—merely a few shillings," replied the solicitor.  
  "I wish, then, that every liability of Count Alteroni be settled in such a way that he may
      quit the prison without being asked for a single shilling. Here is the necessary amount: pay
      all that is due—and pay liberally."  
  "My dear sir," said the lawyer, hesitating, "I hope you have well reflected upon what you
      are about to do."  
  "Yes—yes," answered Richard impatiently: "I have well reflected, I can assure you."  
  "Two thousand pounds—or nearly so—is a large sum, Mr. Markham."  
  "I have weighed all the consequences."  
  "At least, then, you have received ample security—"  
  "Not a scrap of paper."  
  "Had I not better call and see this nobleman, and obtain from him a warrant of attorney or
      cognovit—"  
  "So far from doing any such thing," interrupted Markham, "you must take especial care not to
      mention to a soul the name of the person who has employed you to effect the count's
      release—not a syllable must escape your lips on this head; nor need you acquaint the clerks
      whom you may see, with your own name. In a word, the affair must be buried in profound
      mystery."  
  "Since you are determined," said Mr. Dyson, "I will obey your instructions to the very
      letter. But, once again, excuse me if I request you to reflect whether—"  
  "My dear sir, I have nothing more to reflect upon; and you will oblige me by terminating
      this business as speedily as possible."  
  The solicitor returned to the prison; and Markham, whom he now considered to be foolish or
      mad, instead of improvident and extravagant, threw himself back in the vehicle, and gave way
      to his reflections. His eyes were, however, turned towards the road leading to the Bench; for
      he was anxious to watch for the re-appearance of his agent.  
  Ten minutes had elapsed, when his attention was directed to two ladies who passed by the
      cab, and advanced towards the prison-gate.  
  He leant forward—he could not be mistaken:—no—it was indeed she—the idol of his
      adoration—the being whom he loved with a species of worship! She was walking with the
      countess. They were on their way to visit the count in his confinement; but Richard could not
      catch a glimpse of their countenances—though he divined full well that they wore not an
      expression of joy. It was not, however, necessary for him to behold Isabella's face, in order
      to recognise her:—he knew her by her symmetrical form, the elegant contours of which, even the
      ample shawl she wore could not hide: he knew her by her step—by her graceful and dignified
      gesture—by her lady-like, and yet unassuming gait.  
  Oh! how speedily, thought he within himself, were she and her parents to be restored to
      happiness again!  
  In about a quarter of an hour after the ladies had entered the prison, Dyson returned to his
      client.  
  "Is it all settled?" demanded Markham.  
  "Every thing," answered the lawyer.  
  "And when can the count leave the prison?"  
  "Almost immediately," replied Dyson, as he entered the vehicle once more.  
  Markham then ordered the driver to return to the City.  
   when he whom they loved so tenderly would be restored in freedom to them.  
  The count was seated at a table covered with books and papers, and was busily occupied in
      arranging the latter when the countess and signora entered the room. They were instantly
      welcomed with the most affectionate warmth by the noble prisoner: and he endeavoured to assume
      a cheerful air in their presence.  
  "Any letters?" said the count, after the usual inquiries concerning health and comfort.  
  "None this morning," answered the countess. "And now, my dear husband, tell me—have you
      settled any plan to effect your release?"  
  "No," said the count. "I must trust to events. Were Armstrong alive, I should not hesitate
      to accept a loan from him;—but to none other would I apply."  
  At this moment a knock at the door of the prison chamber was heard; and the two
      inseparables, Captain Smilax Dapper and Sir Cherry Bounce, made their appearance.  
  "My dear count, you don't mean to say that it is really true, and that you are here on your
      own account—strike me!" ejaculated the gallant hussar.  
  "The newth wath twue—too twue, you thee, Thmilackth," said Sir Cherry, shuddering visibly,
      and without any affectation too as he glanced around him.  
  "True indeed!" cried the count, bitterly.  
  "I wonder whether they will let uth out again?" said Sir Cherry, gazing from the window.
      "But, I declare, they have got wacket-gwoundth here, and no leth than thwee pumpth. What can
      the pwithonerth want with tho muth water?"  
  "What, indeed—confound me!" exclaimed the captain. "For my part, I always heard that they
      lived upon beer. But tell me—how much is there against you?"  
  "Yeth—how muth?" echoed Sir Cherry Bounce.  
  "A mere trifle," answered the count evasively. "I have been cruelly robbed, and my present
      position is the result."  
  "Well," continued the captain, with remarkable embarrassment of manner, "we are all here
      together—and so there is no harm in speaking openly, you know—and Cherry isn't anybody, strike
      him!—I was thinking that a very satisfactory arrangement might be made. Always strike when the
      iron's hot! I have long entertained a high respect for your family, count: my late uncle, the
      general, who introduced me and Cherry to you, always spoke in the best possible terms of you,
      although he never said much about your past life, and even hinted that there was some
      mystery—"  
  "To what is all this to lead, Captain Dapper?" exclaimed the count, somewhat
      impatiently.  
  "Simply that—why do you stand there, laughing like a fool, Cherry?"  
  "Me, Thmilackth?"  
  "Yes—you. Well, as I was saying when Cherry interrupted me—I have always entertained the
      highest possible opinion of your family, count, and especially of the signora; and if she
      would accept my hand and heart—why, strike me! an arrangement could be made in four and twenty
      hours—"  
  "Captain Dapper," interrupted the count, "no more of this. I believe that you would not
      wantonly insult either my daughter or myself; but I cannot listen to the terms to which you
      allude."  
  "My dear count—"  
  "Silence, sir! No more of this!" exclaimed the noble Italian.  
  There was a pause, which was broken by the entrance of one of the turnkeys.  
  "Sir, I have the pleasure to inform you that you are discharged," said that functionary.  
  "Discharged!" ejaculated the count: "impossible! How could I be discharged?"  
  The countess and Isabella surveyed the turnkey with looks of the most intense and painful
      anxiety.  
  "A stranger has sent his solicitor to pay every thing against you at the gate; and all the
      fees and the little donations to us and the criers are paid also."  
  "You are bantering me, sirrah!" cried the count. "You are mistaken. The Envoy from my native
      land, who alone of all my acquaintances is capable of doing an action of this generous nature,
      and in so delicate a manner, has been absent from London for the last ten days, and is even
      unaware of my situation. Who then could have paid my debts?"  
  A name trembled upon Isabella's tongue; but the word died upon her lips. She dared not
      pronounce that name—although her heart told her that her surmise was correct, and that Richard
      Markham was the secret friend to whom her father was indebted for his liberty. Richard! the
      reward of thy good deed had already commenced by the feelings which now changed the love that
      the beauteous girl had hitherto experienced for thee, into an adoration and a worship!  
  "Well, sir," said the turnkey, "we don't know who has done this, and it wasn't our business
      to inquire. All I can say is, that the debt is paid, the fees settled, and you may leave the
      place as soon as you like."  
  "Dapper, this is your doing," cried the count, after a moment's pause. "And yet—"  
  "No—strike me!—I had nothing to do with it—I wish I had   now  ."  
  We shall not attempt to describe the delight of the Italian family, when they found that the
      joyful tidings were indeed true; but all the count's conjectures, to fix this generous and
      noble deed upon any particular member of his acquaintance, were alike unsatisfactory and
      unavailing:—Isabella alone divined the truth.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXVI. THE OLD HAG.  
  MARKHAM was not the man to remain idle now that his circumstances were so desperately
      reduced. He had a taste for literary pursuits, and he resolved to devote his talents to some
      advantage. His income was totally insufficient to support his establishment, and yet he knew
      not how to effect any very great economy in the mode of conducting it. He would not for worlds
      allow Mr. Monroe and Ellen to leave his house, and again enter upon a struggle with the world.
      With Whittingham nothing could have induced him to part;—Marian was the only female domestic
      he kept, and he could not dispense with her services. Holford alone was an incumbrance of
      which he thought of relieving himself. But before he adopted any measure of economical reform,
      he summoned the faithful Whittingham to a consultation with him in the library.  
  When Markham had made the butler acquainted with his altered circumstances, the old man
      shook his head, and observed—  
  "Well, Master Richard, all this here ruination—and when I make use of the paragraph
         ruination   mean to express the common sentence,   flooring  —has been brought round
      about by your over generosity, and good disposition towards others. I can't a-bear, Master
      Richard, to see you circumlocuted and circumwented in this manner; and now all your property
      has gone to the canine species—or, wulgarly speaking,   to the dogs  ."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "What is done, is done, Whittingham," said Richard; "nor did I send for you to criticise my
      conduct."  
  "Ah! Master Richard; don't go for to scold me—me that saw you bred and born," exclaimed the
      old butler, tears starting into his eyes. "I wouldn't be an ominous burden to you for all the
      world; so I'll get employment somewhere else—"  
  "No—no, my faithful friend," cried Richard, taking the old man's hand, "I would not allow
      you to leave me on any account. As long as I have a crust you shall share it. My present
      object is to acquaint you with the necessity of introducing the most rigid economy into our
      household."  
  "Ah! now I understand you, Master Richard. And talking of this reminds me that a gentleman
      in the neighbourhood requires a young youth of the nature of Holford; and so the lad might
      step quite permiscuous, as the saying is, into a good situation at once."  
  "Well, let him seek for another place, Whittingham; but tell him that he may stay here until
      he can succeed in finding one."  
  Markham and Whittingham then arranged other little methods of economy, and the debate
      terminated. Fortunately for these plans, Holford procured the place alluded to by Whittingham,
      and repaired to his new situation in the course of a few days.  
   that she was not blind to the limited nature of his means; but he assured her
      that his property was quite commensurate with his expenditure. Ellen appeared to be satisfied;
      but she nevertheless determined within herself to lose no time in seeking for profitable
      employment for her leisure hours.  
  But where was she to seek for occupation? She knew the miserable rate at which the labours
      of the needle-women were paid; and she shuddered at the idea of returning to the service of a
      statuary, an artist, a sculptor, or a photographer. And yet she was resolved not to remain
      idle. She could not bear the thought that her father and herself were a burden upon the
      slender resources of their generous and noble-hearted benefactor:—she saw with pain that while
      Markham forced her father to partake of his wine as usual, he himself now invariably invented
      an excuse to avoid joining in the indulgence;—she saw that Richard rose earlier than
      heretofore, and remained in his library the greater portion of the day;—she learned from
      Marian that the surplus garden produce was sold;—in a word, she beheld a system of the most
      rigid economy introduced into the establishment, and which was only relaxed on behalf of her
      father and herself. All this gave her pain; and she was resolved to do somewhat to enable her
      to contribute towards the resources of the household—even though she should be compelled to
      return to the service of a statuary, an artist, a sculptor, or a photographer.  
  At one moment she thought of applying to Greenwood:—but he had already done all she asked in
      respect to their child. And then, even if she were to obtain money from him, in what manner
      could she account to her father and to Markham for its possession? for there was a secret—a
      terrible secret connected with Greenwood, which she dared not reveal—even though such
      confession were to save her from a death of lingering tortures!  
  Thus thought Ellen Monroe. Was it extraordinary if the idea of applying to the old hag—that
      nameless woman—dwelling in a nameless court in Golden Lane, and exercising a nameless
      avocation—often entered the young lady's imagination? Was it strange that she should gradually
      overcome her repugnance to seek the presence of the filthy-souled harridan, and at length look
      upon such a step as the only means through which her ardent desire to obtain employment could
      be gratified?  
  It was decided! she would go.  
  Accordingly, one morning, she dressed herself in the most simple manner, and proceeded by an
      omnibus into the City. It was mid-day when she reached Golden Lane.  
  With what strange feelings did she proceed along the narrow and dirty thoroughfare! Pure and
      spotless was she when, nearly three years back, she had first set foot in that vile lane;—how
      much had she seen—how much passed through—how much endured since that period?
      Dishonoured—unwedded—she was a mother. Her virgin purity was gone for ever—the evidence of her
      shame was living, and could at any moment be brought forward to betray her. And if she now
      pursued a virtuous course, it was scarcely for virtue's sake, but through dread of the
      consequences of a fresh fault. The innate chastity of her soul had dissolved, like snow before
      the mid-day sun's effulgence, beneath the glances of the statuary, the artist, the sculptor,
      and the photographer. It was true that she looked upon her services to those masters with
      disgust; but the feeling had little reference to pure and unadulterated feminine modesty.
      Still she was of a proud spirit in one respect;—she detested a life of slothful dependence
      upon an individual who had not enough for himself!  
  Such was Ellen Monroe when she retraced her way, on the present occasion, to the dwelling of
      the old hag—that way which had led her to so frightful a precipice before!  
  The old woman was sitting in her great easy chair, watching the steam that rose from a large
      saucepan upon the hob. That saucepan contained the harridan's dinner—tripe and cow-heel
      stewing with onions, and filling the close apartment with a sickly odour. But the hag savoured
      that smell with a hideous expression of delight; to her nostrils it was a delicious perfume.
      From time to time she glanced—almost impatiently—towards her Dutch clock, as if anxious for
      the arrival of the happy moment when she might serve up her mess. She was just spreading a
      filthy napkin upon one corner of her table, when a knock was heard at her door.  
  Instead of inviting the visitor, whoever it might be, to enter, the hag hastened to answer
      the summons by opening the door a few inches. She was already afraid that some poor neighbour
      might seek a portion of her dainty meal!  
  But when she recognised Ellen Monroe, a gleam of joy suddenly illumined her lowering
      countenance, and the young lady immediately obtained admittance, for the hag thought within
      herself—"There is gold yet to be gained by her!"  
  Re-assured as to the undivided enjoyment of the stew, and having satisfied herself with a
      glance that Ellen was above immediate want, the old woman conducted her fair visitant to a
      seat, saying—  
  "My bird of beauty, you have come back to me again; I have been waiting for your return a
      long long time."  
  "Waiting for me?" cried Ellen, with surprise.  
  "Yes, miss—certainly. I know the world—and I felt convinced that you could not always
      contrive for yourself, without me."  
  "I am at a loss to understand you," said Ellen.  
  "Well—well, no matter!" exclaimed the hag, lifting off the lid of her saucepan, and ogling
      the stew. "At all events," she continued, after a pause, "you require my services now—else why
      are you come?"  
  "Yes—I require your services," answered the young lady. "I want employment—can you tell me
      of any thing likely to suit me?"  
  "In what way?" demanded the hag, with an impudent leer.  
  Ellen remained silent—absorbed in thought. That question recalled to her mind the
      difficulties of her position, and convinced her how little scope there was for the exercise of
      choice in respect to employment.  
    
  "In what way can I serve you?" said the harridan again, after a long time.  
  "Alas! I have scarcely made up my mind how to answer the question," replied Ellen, smiling
      in spite of her melancholy thoughts. "I am not actually in want; but my father and myself are
      dependent upon the bounty of one who is by no means able to support us in idleness. My father
      can do nothing; he is old—infirm, and broken down by affliction. It therefore remains for me
      to do something to earn at least a trifle."  
  "A young lady of your beauty cannot be at a loss for friends who will treat her nobly," said
      the old woman, affecting to busy herself with her stew, but in reality watching Ellen's
      countenance with a reptile-like gaze as she spoke.  
  "Ah! I know that I am not the ugliest person in existence," exclaimed the young lady,
      smiling once more; "but I am anxious," she added, her countenance suddently assuming a serious
      expression, "to live a quiet—an honourable—and a virtuous life. I know there is nothing to be
      gained by the needle. I dislike the menial and degrading situation of a copy or a model:—are
      you aware of no other occupation that will suit me?"  
  "Have you any money in your pocket?" demanded the hag, after a few moments' reflection.  
  "I have three sovereigns and a few shillings," answered Ellen, taking her purse from her
      reticule.  
  "I know of an employment that will suit you well," continued the old woman; "and my price
      for putting it in your way will be the three sovereigns in your purse."  
  "Of what nature is the employment?" asked Ellen.  
  "That of patient to a Mesmerist," was the reply.  
  "Patient to a mesmerist!" exclaimed the young lady: "I do not understand you."  
  "There is a French gentleman who has lately arrived in London, and who lectures upon Animal
      Magnetism at the West End," said the hag. "He has created a powerful sensation; and all the
      world are running after him. But he requires patients to operate upon; and the photographer,
      with whom he is acquainted, recommended him to apply to me. You will answer his purpose; and
      you well know that I have always performed my promises to you hitherto; so you need not be
      afraid to pay me my price at once. I will then give you the mesmerist's card."  
  "First explain the nature of the services that will be demanded of me," said Ellen.  
  "You will be placed in a chair, and the magnetiser will pass his hands backwards and
      forwards in a particular way before your eyes; you will then have to fall asleep—or pretend to
      do so, whichever you like; and the professor will ask you questions, to which you must reply.
      This is the main business which he will require at your hands."  
  "But it is a gross deception," said Ellen.  
  "You may embrace or refuse my offer, just as you choose. If you are so very particular,
      Miss," added the old woman ironically, "why do you not obtain the situation of a governess, or
      go out and give lessons in music and drawing?"  
  "Because I should be asked for references, which I cannot give;—because there would be a
      perpetual danger of my former occupations transpiring;—and because——"  
  "Because—because you do not fancy that employment," exclaimed the hag impatiently. "See
      now—my dinner is ready—you are wasting my time—I have other business to attend to anon. Do you
      refuse or accept my offer?"  
  "What remuneration shall I be enabled to earn?" demanded Ellen, hesitatingly.  
  "Thirty shillings a-week."  
  "And how long shall I be occupied each day?"  
  "About two hours at the evening lectures three times a week; and perhaps an hour every day
      to study your part."  
  "Then I accept your offer," said Ellen; and she placed three sovereigns upon the table.  
  The eyes of the old woman glistened at the sight of the gold, which she clutched hastily
      from the table for fear that Ellen might suddenly repent of her bargain. She wrapped the three
      pieces carefully up in a piece of paper, and hastened to conceal them in the interior of her
      old Dutch clock. She then opened her table-drawer, and begin to rummage, as on former
      occasions when Ellen visited her, amongst its filthy contents.  
  The search occupied several minutes; for the old woman had numerous cards and notes
      scattered about in her drawer.  
  "You see that I have a good connexion," she observed, with a horrible smile of
      self-gratulation, as she turned the cards and notes over and over with her long bony hands:
      "all the fashionable young men about town know me, and do not hesitate to engage my services
      on particular occasions. Then they recommend me, because I give them satisfaction; and so I
      always have enough to do to give me bread. I am not idle, my dear child—I am not idle, I can
      assure you. Day and night I am at the beck and call of my patrons. I help gentlemen to
      mistresses, and ladies to lovers. But, ah! the pay is not what it used to be—it is not what it
      used to be!" repeated the old hag, shaking her head dolefully. "There is a great competition,
      even in my profession, miss—a very great competition. The shoemakers, the tailors, the
      publicans, the butchers, the bakers, all complain of competition;—but they have not half so
      much right to complain as I have. Now and then I pick up a handsome sum in one way;—and, while
      I think of it, miss, I may as well mention to you—for who can tell what may happen?—you are
      young, and beautiful, and warm—and such a thing is almost sure to befall you as well as any
      other woman. But, as I was saying, miss—I may as well mention to you, that if you should
      happen—in consequence of a fault—to——"  
  The old woman leant forward, and whispered something in Ellen's ear.  
  The young lady started; and an exclamation of mingled disgust and horror escaped her
      lips.  
  "Do not alarm yourself, my dear child," said the old hag, resuming her search with the most
      imperturbable coolness: "I did not mean to offend you. I can assure you that many a young
      lady, of higher birth than yours, and dwelling in the most fashionable quarters of London, has
      been glad to avail herself of my services. What would often become of the indiscreet miss if
      it wasn't for me? what, indeed?—what, indeed?"  
  "Haste and give me the card," exclaimed Ellen, in a tone of ill concealed disgust and
      aversion; "I am in a hurry—I can wait no longer."  
  "There it is, my dear," said the old hag. "I know the situation will suit you. When you
      require another, come to me."  
  Miss Monroe received the card, and took her departure without another moment's delay.  
   There is yet much gold to be made by that girl: she cannot do long without
      me!"  
  Then the horrible wretch fetched from the cupboard the champagne-bottle which contained her
      gin; and she seated herself cheerfully at the table covered with the dainties that she
      loved.  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXVII. THE PROFESSOR OF MESMERISM.  
  ELLEN had already been long enough from home to incur the chance of exciting surprise or
      alarm at her absence; she was therefore compelled to postpone her visit to the Professor of
      Mesmerism until the following day.  
  On her return to the Place, after an absence of nearly three hours, her fears were to some
      extent realised, her father being uneasy at her disappearance for so long a period. She
      availed herself of this opportunity to acquaint Mr. Monroe with her anxiety to devote her
      talents to some useful purpose, in order to earn at least sufficient to supply them both with
      clothes, and thus spare as much as possible the purse of their benefactor. Her father highly
      approved of this laudable aim; and Ellen assured him that one of the families, for whom she
      had once worked at the West End, had promised to engage her as a teacher of music and drawing
      for a few hours every week. It will be recollected that the old man had invariably been led to
      believe that his daughter was occupied in private houses with her needle, when she was really
      in the service of the statuary, the artist, the sculptor, and the photographer: he therefore
      now readily put faith in the tale which Ellen told him, and even undertook not only to
      communicate her intention to Markham, but also to prevent him from throwing any obstacle in
      its way. This task the old man accomplished that very day; and thus Ellen triumphed over the
      chief difficulty which she had foreseen—namely, that of accounting for the frequent absence
      from home which her new pursuits would render imperative. And this duplicity towards her sire
      she practised without a blush. Oh! what a wreck of virtue and chastity had the mind of that
      young female become!  
  The Professor of Mesmerism occupied a handsome suite of apartments in New Burlington Street.
      He was a man of about fifty, of prepossessing exterior, elegant manners, and intelligent mind.
      He spoke English fluently, and was acquainted with many continental languages besides his
      own.  
  It was mid-day when Miss Monroe was ushered into his presence.  
  The Professor was evidently struck by the beauty of her appearance; but he held her virtue
      at no high estimation, in consequence of the source of her recommendation to him. Little cared
      he, however, whether she were a paragon of moral excellence, or an example of female
      degradation: his connexion with her was to be based upon a purely commercial ground; and he
      accordingly set about an explanation of his views and objects. Ellen listened with attention,
      and agreed to become the patient of the mesmerist.  
  Thus, having sold her countenance to the statuary, her likeness to the artist, her bust to
      the sculptor, her entire form to the photographer, and her virtue to a libertine, she disposed
      of her dreams to the mesmerist.  
  Several days were spent in taking lessons and studying her part, under the tutelage of the
      Professor. She was naturally of quick comprehension; and this practice was easy to her. Her
      initiation was therefore soon complete; and the Professor at length resolved upon giving a
      private exhibition of "the truths of Mesmerism practically illustrated" to a few friends.
      Ellen took a feigned name; and all the preliminary arrangements were settled.  
  The memorable evening arrived; and by eight o'clock the Professor's drawing-room was filled
      with certain select individuals, all of whom were favourably inclined towards the "science" of
      Mesmerism. Some of them, indeed, were perfectly enthusiastic in behalf of this newly-revived
      doctrine. The reporters of the press were rigidly excluded from this meeting, with two or
      three exceptions in favour of journals which were known to be friendly to the principle of
      Animal Magnetism.  
  When the guests were thus assembled, Ellen was led into the apartment. She was desired to
      seat herself comfortably in an easy arm-chair; and the Professor then commenced his
      manipulations, "with a view to produce   coma  , or mesmeric sleep." In about five
      minutes Ellen sank back, apparently in a profound sleep, with the eyes tightly closed.  
  The Professor then expatiated upon the truths of the science of Mesmerism; and the assembled
      guests eagerly drank in every word he uttered. At length he touched upon
        Clairvoyance  , which he explained in the following manner:—  
  "  Clairvoyance  ," he said, "is the most extraordinary result of Animal Magnetism. It
      enables the person magnetised to foretel events relating both to themselves and others; to
      describe places which they have never visited, and houses the interior of which they have
      never seen; to read books opened and held behind their heads; to delineate the leading points
      of pictures in a similar position; to read a letter through its envelope; to describe the
      motions or actions of a person in another room, with a wall intervening; and to narrate events
      passing in far distant places."  
  The Professor then proposed to give practical illustrations of the phenomena which he had
      just described.  
  The visitors were now all on the tiptoe of expectation; and the reporters prepared their
      note-books. Meantime Ellen remained apparently wrapped up in a profound slumber; and more than
      one admiring glance was turned upon her beautiful classic features and the exuberant richness
      of her bust.  
  "I shall now question the patient," said the Professor, "in a manner which will prove the
      first phenomenon   of clairvoyance  ; namely,   the power of foretelling events
       relative to themselves and others  ."  
  He paused for a moment, performed a few more manipulations, and then said, "Can you tell me
      any thing in reference to future events which are likely to happen to myself?"  
  "Within a week from this moment you will hear of the death of a relation!" replied Ellen in
      slow and measured terms.  
  "Of what sex is that relation?"  
  "A lady: she is now dangerously ill."  
  "How old is she?"  
  "Between sixty and seventy. I can see her lying upon her sick-couch with two doctors by her
      side. She has just undergone a most painful operation."  
  "It is perfectly true," whispered the Professor to his friends, "that I have an aunt of that
      age; but I am not aware that she is even ill—much less at the point of death."  
    
  "Let us now test her in reference to the second phenomenon I mentioned," said the Professor;
      "which will show   the power of describing places she has never visited, and houses whose
       interiors she has never seen  ."  
  "Ah! that will be curious, indeed," cried several guests.  
  "Perhaps you, Mr. Wilmot," said the Professor, addressing a gentleman standing next to him,
      "will have the kindness to examine the patient relative to your own abode."  
  "Certainly," replied Mr. Wilmot then, turning towards Ellen, he said, "Will you visit me at
      my house?"  
  "With much pleasure," was her immediate answer.  
  "Where is it situated?"  
  "In Park Lane."  
  "Come in with me. What do you see?"  
  "A splendid hall, with a marble table between two pillars on one side, and a wide flight of
      stairs, also of marble, on the other."  
  "Come with me into the dining room of my house. Now what do you see?"  
  "Seven large pictures."  
  "Where are the windows?"  
  "There are three at the bottom of the room."  
  "What colour are the curtains?"  
  "A rich red."  
  "What is the subject of the large picture facing the fire-place?"  
  "The battle of Trafalgar."  
  "How do you know it is that battle?"  
  "Because I can read on the flag of one of the ships the words, '  England expects that
       every man will do his duty  .'"  
  "I shall not ask her any more questions," said Mr. Wilmot, evidently quite amazed by these
      answers. "Every one of her replies is true to the very letter. And I think," he added, turning
      towards the other guests, "that you all know me well enough to believe me, when I declare most
      solemnly that this young person has never, to my knowledge, been in my house in her life."  
  A murmur of satisfaction arose amongst the guests, who were all perfectly astounded at the
      phenomena now illustrated—although they had come, as before said, with a predisposition in
      favour of Mesmerism.  
  "We will have another proof yet," said the Professor. "Perhaps Mr. Parke will have the
      kindness to question the patient."  
  Mr. Parke stepped forward, and said, "Will you do me the favour to walk with me to my
      house."  
  "Thank you, I will," answered Ellen, still apparently remaining in a profound mesmeric
      sleep.  
  "Where is my house?"  
  "In Mortimer Street, Cavendish Square."  
  "How many windows has it in front?"  
  "Thirteen."  
  "Where are the two statues of Napoleon?"  
  "In the library."  
  "What else do you see in that room?"  
  "Immense quantities of books on shelves in glass cases."  
  "Are there any pictures?"  
  "Yes—seven."  
  "What is the subject of the one over the mantelpiece?"  
  "A beautiful view of London, by moonlight, from one of the bridges."  
  "Wonderful!" ejaculated Mr. Parke. "All she has said is perfectly correct. It is not
      necessary to ask her any more questions on this subject."  
  "Gentlemen," said the Professor, casting a triumphant glance around him, "I am delighted to
      perceive that you are satisfied with this mode of illustrating the phenomena of
         clairvoyance  . I will now prove to you that the patient   can read a book held open
       behind her head  ."  
  He then performed some more manipulations to plunge his patient into as deep a mesmeric
      sleep as possible, although she had given no symptom of an inclination to awake throughout the
      preceding examination. Having thus confirmed, as he said, her perfect state of   coma  ,
      the Professor took up a book—apparently pitched upon at random amongst a heap of volumes upon
      the table; and, holding it open behind the head of the patient, he said, "What is this?"  
  "A book," was the immediate reply.  
  "What book?"  
  "Milton's   Paradise Lost  ."  
  "At what page have I opened it?"  
  "I can read pages 110 and 111."  
  "Read a few lines."  
  Ellen accordingly repeated the following passage in a slow and beautifully mellifluous
      tone:—  
  
  "Now morn, her rosy steps in th' eastern clime  
  Advancing, sowed the earth with orient pearl,  
  When Adam waked, so 'customed, for his sleep  
  Was airy light, from pure digestion bred,  
  And temperate vapours bland, which th' only sound  
  Of leaves and fuming rills, Aurora's fan,  
  Lightly dispersed, and the shrill matin song  
  Of birds on every bough."   target="#ENG18460_N077"/   
  
  "That is sufficient," cried several voices. "Do not fatigue her. We are perfectly satisfied.
      It is really marvellous. Who will now dare to doubt the phenomena of
        clairvoyance  ?"  
  "Let us take a picture," said the Professor; "  and she will delineate all the leading
       points in it  ."  
  The mesmerist took an engraving from a portfolio, and held it behind Ellen's head.  
  "What is this?" he demanded.  
  "A picture."  
  "What is the subject?"  
  "I do not know the subject; but I can see two figures in the fore-ground, with a camel. The
      back-ground has elevated buildings. Oh! now I can see it plainer: it is a scene in Egypt; and
      those buildings are the pyramids."  
  "Extraordinary!" cried Mr. Wilmot.  
  "And that little hesitation was a proof of the fact that she could really see the picture,"
      added Mr. Parke.  
  "Wonderful! extraordinary!" exclaimed numerous voices.  
  At this moment a servant entered the room and delivered a letter to his master, the
      Professor, stating that it had just been left by a friend from Paris.  
  The mesmerist was about to open it, when a sudden idea seemed to strike him.  
  "Gentlemen," he exclaimed, throwing the letter upon the table, "the arrival of this missive
      affords me an opportunity of proving another phenomenon belonging to   clairvoyance  .
         The patient shall read this letter through the envelope.  "  
  "But if its contents be private?" said a guest.  
  "Then I am surrounded by gentlemen of honour, who will not publish those contents," returned
      the professor with a smile.  
  A murmur of approbation welcomed this happy compliment of the Frenchman.  
   from Ellen's countenance, and said, "What is this?"  
  "A letter," she replied. "It is written in French."  
  "Read it," cried the mesmerist.  
  "The writing is obscure, and the lines seem to cross each other."  
  "That is because the letter is in an envelope and folded," said the Professor. "But try and
      read it."  
  Ellen then distinctly repeated the contents of the letter, of which the following is a
      translation:—  
  
  "  Paris  .  
  "  Honoured Sir  ,—I have to acquaint you with the alarming illness of my beloved
       mistress, your aunt Madame Delabarre. She was taken suddenly ill four days ago. Two eminent
       physicians are in constant attendance upon her. It is believed that if she does not get
       better in a few days, the medical attendants will perform an operation upon her. Should your
       leisure and occupation permit, you would do well to hasten to France to comfort your
       venerable relative.  
  "Your humble servant,  
  
  "FELICIE SOLIVEAU."    
  
  "Ah! my poor aunt! my poor aunt!" cried the Professor: "she is no more! It was her death
      that the patient foretold ere now! Yes—the two physicians—the painful operation—Oh! my poor
      aunt!"  
  The mesmerist tore open the letter, hastily glanced over it, and handed it to the gentleman
      who stood nearest to him. This individual perused it attentively, and, turning towards the
      other guests, said, "It is word for word as the patient read it."  
  The enthusiasm of the disciples of mesmerism present was only damped by the grief into which
      the Professor was now plunged by the conviction of the death of his venerable aunt. They,
      therefore, briefly returned their best thanks for the highly satisfactory illustrations of the
      truths of mesmeric phenomena which they had witnessed upon the occasion, and took their leave,
      their minds filled with the marvels that had been developed to them.  
  The moment the guests and the reporters had taken their departure, the Professor hastened up
      to Ellen, took her by the hand, and exclaimed in a transport of joy, "You may rise, my good
      young lady; it is all over! You acquitted yourself admirably! Nothing could be better. I am
      delighted with you! My fortune is made—my fortune is made! These English blockheads bite at
      anything!"  
  Ellen rose from the chair in which she had feigned her mesmeric sleep, and was by no means
      displeased with the opportunity of stretching her limbs, which were dreadfully cramped through
      having remained an hour in one unchanged position. The Professor compelled her to drink a
      glass of wine to refresh her; and in a few minutes she was perfectly at her ease once
      more.  
  "Yes," repeated the mesmerist; "you conducted yourself admirably. I really could not have
      anticipated such perfection at what I may call a mere rehearsal of your part. You remembered
      every thing I had told you to the very letter. By cleverly selecting to examine you, those
      persons whose houses I have visited myself, and the leading features of which I am able to
      explain to you beforehand, I shall make you accomplish such wonders in this respect, that even
      the most sceptical will be astounded. You have an excellent memory; and that is the essential.
      Moreover, I shall never mislead you. The book and the print agreed upon between us during the
      day, shall always be chosen for illustration at the lecture. By the bye, your little
      hesitation about the engraving was admirable. You may always introduce that   piece of
       acting   into your   part  : it appears true. The part then is not over-done. I give
      you great credit for the idea. In a few days I shall tell all my friends that I have received
      a letter announcing my aunt's death; and that her demise took place at the very moment when
      you beheld her death-bed in your mesmeric slumber. This will astound them completely. On the
      next occasion we must introduce into our comedy the scene   of the patient describing what
       takes place in another room, with a wall intervening  ; and as we will settle before-hand
      all that I shall do in another apartment, upon the occasion, that portion of the task will not
      be difficult."  
  "But suppose, sir," said Ellen, "that a gentleman, concerning whose house you have given me
      no previous description, should wish to examine me,—what must I do in such a case?"  
  "Remain silent," answered the Professor.  
  "And would not this excite suspicion?"  
  "Not a bit of it. I have my answer ready:—'  There is no magnetic affinity, no mesmeric
       sympathy, between you and your interlocutor.  ' That is the way to stave off such a
      difficulty; and it applies equally to a stranger holding books or prints for you to read with
      the back of your head."  
  "I really can scarcely avoid laughing when I think of the nature of the farce," observed
      Ellen.  
  "And yet this is not the only doctrine with which the world is duped," said the Professor.
      "But it is growing late; and you are doubtless anxious to return home. I am so well pleased
      with you, that I must beg you to accept this five-pound note as an earnest of my liberal
      intentions. You were very perfect with the poetry and the letter—the letter, by the bye, from
      my poor old aunt, whose existence is only in my own imagination!—Indeed, altogether, I am
      delighted with you!"  
  Ellen received the money tendered her by the mesmerist, and took her departure.  
  Thus successfully terminated her first essay as a patient to a Professor of Animal
      Magnetism!  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXVIII. THE FIGURANTE.  
  THE wonders performed by the Professor of Mesmerism produced an immense sensation. The
      persons who had been admitted to the "private exhibition," did not fail to proclaim far and
      wide the particulars of all that they had witnessed; and, as a tale never loses by repetition,
      the narrative of those marvels became in a very few days a perfect romance. The reporters of
      the press, who had attended the exhibition, dressed up a magnificent account of the entire
      proceedings, for the journals with which they were connected; and the fame of the Professor,
      like that of one of the knights of the olden time, was soon "bruited abroad through the length
      and breadth of the land."  
   wary were deluded by it; and the purse of the Professor was well filled with the
      gold of his dupes.  
  But all things have an end: and the deceit of the Mesmerist was not an exception to the
      rule.  
  One evening, a gentleman—a friend of the Professor—was examining Ellen, who of course was in
      a perfect state of   coma  , respecting the interior of his library. The patient had gone
      through the process of questioning uncommonly well, until at length the gentleman said to her,
      "Whereabouts does the stuffed owl stand in the room you are describing?"  
  In the abstract there was nothing ludicrous in this query: but, when associated with the
      absurdity of the part which Ellen was playing, and entering as a link into the chain of
      curious ideas that occupied her mind at the moment, it assumed a shape so truly ridiculous
      that her gravity was completely overcome. She burst into an immoderate fit of laughter: her
      eyes opened wide—the perfect state of coma vanished in a moment—the   clairvoyance   was
      forgotten—the catalepsy disappeared—and the patient became unmesmerised in a moment, in total
      defiance of all the prescribed rules and regulations of Animal Magnetism!  
  Laughter is catching. The audience began to titter—then to indulge in a half-suppressed
      cachinnation;—and at length a chorus of hilarity succeeded the congenial symphony which
      emanated from the lips of the patient.  
  The Professor was astounded.  
  He was, however, a man of great presence of mind: and he instantaneously pronounced Ellen's
      conduct to be a phenomenon in Mesmerism, which was certainly rarely illustrated, but for which
      he was by no means unprepared.  
  But all his eloquence was useless. The risible inclination which now animated the great
      majority of his audience, triumphed over the previous prejudice in favour of Mesmerism; the
      charm was dissolved—the spell was annihilated—"the pitcher had gone so often to the well that
      it got broken at last"—the voice of the Professor had lost its power.  
  No sooner did the hilarity subside a little, when it was renewed again; and even the friends
      and most staunch adherents of the Professor looked at each other with suspicion depicted upon
      their countenances.  
  What reason could not do, was effected by ridicule: Mesmerism, like the heathen mythology,
      ceased to be a worship.  
  The Professor grew distracted. Confusion ensued; the audience rose from their seats; groups
      were formed; and the proceedings of the evening were freely discussed by the various different
      parties into which the company thus split.  
  Ellen took advantage of the confusion to slip out of the room; and in a few moments she left
      the house.  
  Her occupation was now once more gone; and she resolved to pay another visit to the old
      hag.  
  Accordingly, in a few days she again sought the miserable court in Golden Lane.  
  It was about three o'clock in the afternoon, when the young lady entered the apartment in
      which the old hag dwelt. The wrinkled wretch was seated at the table, working. She had bought
      herself a new gown with a portion of the money which she had received from Ellen on the
      occasion of recommending the latter to the Mesmerist; and the old woman's looks were joyful—as
      joyful as so hideous an expression of countenance would allow them to be—for she thought of
      being smart once more, even in her old age. Vanity only ceases with the extinction of life
      itself.  
  "Well, my child," said the old woman, gaily; "you have come back to me again. Surely you
      have not already finished with your Mesmerist?"  
  "Yes," replied Ellen. "The bubble has burst; and I am once more in search of
      employment."  
  "And in such search, miss, will you ever be, until you choose to settle yourself in a manner
      suitable to your beauty, your accomplishments, and your merits," said the old woman.  
  "In what way could I thus settle myself?"  
  "Do you ask me so simple a question? May you not have a handsome house, a carriage,
      servants, money, rich garments, jewels, and a box at the Opera, for the mere asking?"  
  "I do not require so much," answered Ellen, with a smile. "If I can earn a guinea or two a
      week, I shall be contented."  
  "And do you not feel anxious to set off your charms to the greatest advantage?" demanded the
      old woman. "How well would pearls become your soft and shining hair! how dazzling would your
      polished arms appear when clasped by costly bracelets! how lovely would be your little ears
      with brilliant pendants! how elegant would be your figure when clad in rustling silk or rich
      satin! how the whiteness of your bosom would eclipse that of the finest lace! Ah! miss, you
      are your own enemy—you are your own enemy!"  
  "You forget that I have a father," said Ellen,—"a father who loves me, and whom I love,—a
      father who would die if he knew of his daughter's disgrace."  
  "Fathers do not die so easily," cried the old hag. "They habituate themselves to every
      thing, as well as other people. And then—think of the luxuries and comforts with which you
      could surround the old man."  
  "We will not talk any more upon that subject," said Ellen firmly. "I well understand your
      meaning; and I am not prudish nor false enough to affect a virtue which I do not possess. But
      I have my interests to consult; and it does not suit my ideas of happiness to accept the
      proposal implied by your language. In a word, can you find me any more employment?"  
  "I know no more Mesmerists," answered the old hag, in a surly tone.  
  "Then you can do nothing for me?"  
  "I did not say that—I did not say that," cried the hag. "It is true I can get you upon the
      stage; but perhaps that pursuit will not please you."  
  "Upon the stage!" ejaculated Ellen. "In what capacity?"  
  "As a   figurante  , or dancer in the ballet, at a great theatre," replied the old
      woman.  
  "But I should be known—I should be recognised," said Ellen.  
  "There is no chance of that," returned the hag. "Dressed like a sylph, with rouge upon your
      cheeks, and surrounded by a blaze of light, you would be altogether a different being. Ah! it
      seems that I already behold you upon the stage—the point of admiration for a thousand
      looks—the object of envy and desire, and of every passion which can possibly gratify female
      vanity."  
  For some moments Ellen remained lost in thought. The old woman's offer pleased her: she was
      vain of her beauty and she contemplated with delight the opportunity thus presented to her of
      displaying it with brilliant effect. She already dreamt of success, applause, and showers of
      nosegays; and her countenance gradually expended into a smile of pleasure.  
    
  "Why do you hesitate?" demanded the old woman.  
  "Oh! I was only thinking that the introduction would be better——"  
  "If it did not come from me?" added the old woman, her wrinkled face becoming more wrinkled
      still with a sardonic grin. "Well, make yourself easy upon that score. I am only aware that a
      celebrated manager has a vacancy in his establishment for a figurante, and you may apply for
      it."  
  "But I am ignorant of the modes of dancing practised upon the stage," said Ellen.  
  "You will soon learn," answered the old woman. "Your beauty will prove your principal
      recommendation."  
  "And what shall I give you for your suggestion?" asked Ellen, taking out her purse.  
  When a bailiff makes a seizure in a house, he assures himself with a glance around, whether
      there be sufficient property to pay at least   his   expenses;—when a debtor calls upon
      his creditor to ask for time, the latter surveys the former for a moment, to ascertain by his
      countenance if he can be trusted;—the wholesale dealer always "takes stock," as it were, of
      the petty detailer who applies to him for credit;—and thus was it that the old woman
      scrutinized with a single look the capacity of Ellen's purse, so that she might thereby
      regulate her demand. And all the while she appeared intent only on her work.  
  "You can give me a couple of guineas now," the old woman at length said; "and if your
      engagement proves a good one, you can bring or send me three more in the course of the
      month."  
  This arrangement was immediately complied with, and Ellen took leave of the old hag, with
      the fervent hope that she should never require her aid any more.  
  On the following day Miss Monroe called upon the manager of the great national theatre where
      a figurante was required.  
  She was ushered into the presence of the theatrical monarch, who received her with much
      urbanity and kindness; and he was evidently pleased with her address, appearance, and manners,
      as she explained to him the nature of her business.  
  "Dancing in a ball-room, and dancing upon the stage, are two very different things," said
      the manager. "You will have to undergo a course of training, the length of which will depend
      upon your skill and your application. I have known young ladies become proficient in a
      month—others in a year—many never, in spite of all their exertions. Most of the figurantes
      have been brought up to their avocation from childhood; but I see no reason why you should not
      learn to acquit yourself well in a very short time."  
  "I shall exert myself to the utmost, at all events," observed Ellen.  
  "How are you circumstanced?" inquired the manager. "Excuse the question; but my object is to
      ascertain if you can support yourself during your apprenticeship, as we may term the process
      of study and initiation?"  
  "I have a comfortable home, and am not without resources for my present wants," answered
      Ellen.  
  "So far, so good," said the manager. "I do not seek to pry into your secrets. You know best
      what motives induce you to adopt the stage: my business is to secure the services of young,
      handsome, and elegant ladies, to form my   corps de ballet  . It is no compliment to you
      to say that you will answer my purpose, provided your studies are successful."  
  "With whom am I to study, sir?"  
  "My ballet-master will instruct you," replied the manager. "You can attend his class. If you
      will come to the theatre to-morrow morning at ten o'clock, you can take your first
      lesson."  
  Ellen assented to the proposal, and took leave of the manager. They were mutually satisfied
      with this interview: the manager was pleased with the idea of securing the services of a young
      lady of great beauty, perfect figure, and exquisite grace;—and, on her side, Ellen was cheered
      with the prospect of embracing an avocation which, she hoped, would render her independent of
      the bounty of others.  
  And now her training commenced. In the first place her feet were placed in a groove-box,
      heel to heel, so that they formed only one straight line, and with the knees turned outwards.
      This process is called "  se tourner  ." At first the pain was excruciating—it was a
      perfect martyrdom; but the fair student supported it without a murmur; and in a very few days
      her feet accustomed themselves, as it were, to fall in dancing parallel to each other.  
  The second lesson in the course of training consisted of resting the right foot on a bar,
      which Ellen was compelled to hold in a horizontal line with her left hand. Then the left foot
      was placed upon the bar, which was in this case held up by the right hand. By these means the
      stiffness of the feet was destroyed, and they were rendered as pliant and elastic as if they
      had steel springs instead of bones. This process is denominated "  se casser  ."  
  Next, the student had to practise walking upon the extreme points of the toes, so that the
      foot and the leg formed one straight line. Then Ellen had to practise the flings, capers,
      caprioles, turns, whirls, leaps, balances, borees, and all the various cuts, steps, positions,
      attitudes, and movements of the dance. During the caprioles the student had to train herself
      to perform four, six, and even eight steps in the air; and the fatigue produced by these
      lessons was at times of the most oppressive nature.  target="#ENG18460_N078" [78]    
  When Ellen was perfected in these portions of her training, she had to practise the tricks
      of the stage. At one time the was suspended to lines of wires; at another she was seated on
      paste-board clouds; then she learned to disappear through traps, or to make her exit by a
      window. Some of these manœuvres were of a very dangerous nature; indeed, in some, the
         danseuse   actually risked her life—and all her limbs. The awkwardness of an underling
      in shifting a trap-door at the precise moment would have led her to dash her head against a
      plank with fearful violence.  
  The art of theatrical dancing is divided into two schools, called   Ballonné   and
         Tacqueté  . The former is the branch in which Taglioni shines; the latter is that in
      which Fanny Ellsler excels. The style of the   Ballonné  , takes its name from the
      airiness of the balloon; it combines lightness with grace, and is principally characterized by
      a breezy and floating appearance of the figure. The   Tacqueté   is all vivacity and
      rapidity, distinguished by sparkling steps and twinkling measures, executed with wonderful
      quickness upon the point of the feet. In both these schools was Ellen instructed.  
   resolute in surmounting all obstacles, that in the short space of two months she
      was a beautiful dancer. The manager was perfectly astonished at her progress; and he
      pronounced a most favourable opinion upon her chance of achieving a grand triumph.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Her form became all suppleness and lightness; her powers of relaxation and abandonment of
      limb were prodigious. When attired in the delicate drapery of the ballet, nothing could be
      more beautiful—nothing more sylph-like, than the elastic airiness of her rich and rounded
      figure. The grace of her attitudes—the charm of her dance—the arrangement of that drapery,
      which revealed or exhibited the exquisite contours of her form—the classic loveliness of her
      countenance—the admirable symmetry of her limbs—and the brilliant whiteness of her skin,
      formed a whole so attractive, so ravishing, that even the envy of her sister-figurantes was
      subdued by a sentiment of uncontrollable admiration.  
  In obedience to a suggestion from the manager, Ellen agreed to adopt a well-sounding name.
      She accordingly styled herself Miss Selina Fitzherbert. She then learned that at least
      two-thirds of the gentlemen and ladies constituting the theatrical company, had changed their
      original patronymics into convenient pseudonyms. Thus Timothy Jones had become Gerald
      Montgomery; William Wilkins was announced as William Plantagenet; Simon Snuffles adopted the
      more aristocratic nomenclature of Emeric Gordon; Benjamin Glasscock was changed into Horatio
      Mortimer; Betsy Podkins was distinguished as Lucinda Hartington; Mary Smicks was displaced by
      Clara Maberly; Jane Storks was commuted into Jacintha Runnymede; and so on.  
  In her relations with the gentlemen and ladies of the corps, Ellen (for we shall continue to
      call her by her real name) found herself in a new world. Every thing with her present
      associates might be summed up in the word—  egotism   stage as a profession, the answer was invariably the same—  
  "I entered on this career through preference, and have quarrelled with all my friends in
      consequence. Oh! if I chose," would be added, with a toss of the head, "I might have any thing
      done for me; I might ride in my carriage; but I am determined to stick to the stage."  
  Poor creatures! this innocent little vanity was a species of reward, a sort of set-off, for
      long hours of toil, the miseries of a precarious existence, the moments of bitter anguish
      produced by the coldness of an audience, and all the thousand causes of sorrow, vexation, and
      distress which embitter the lives of the actor and actress.  
  With all their little faults, Ellen found the members of the theatrical company good-natured
      creatures, ever ready to assist each other, hospitable and generous to a fault. In their gay
      moments, they were sprightly, full of anecdote, and remarkably entertaining. Many of them were
      clever, and exhibited much sound judgment in their remarks and critical observations upon new
      dramas and popular works.  
  At length the evening arrived when Ellen was to make her first appearance upon the stage in
      public. The house was well attended; and the audience was thrown into a remarkably good humour
      by the various performances which preceded the ballet. Ellen was in excellent spirits, and
      full of confidence. As she surveyed herself in the glass in her little dressing-room a few
      moments before she appeared, a smile of triumph played upon her lips, and lent fire to her
      eyes. She was indeed ravishingly beautiful.  
  Her success was complete. The loveliness of her person at once produced an impression in her
      favour; and when she executed some of the most difficult measures of the Ballonné school, the
      enthusiasm of the audience knew no bounds. The eyes of the ancient libertines, aided by
      opera-glasses and   lorgnettes  , devoured the charms of that beautiful girl;—the young
      men followed every motion, every gesture, with rapturous attention;—the triumph of the
         debutante   was complete.  
  There was something so graceful and yet so voluptuous in her style of dancing,—something so
      bewitching in her attitudes and so captivating in her manner, that she could not have failed
      to please. And then she had so well studied all those positions which set off her symmetrical
      form to its best advantage,—she had paid such unwearied attention to those measures that were
      chiefly calculated to invoke attention to her well-rounded, and yet light and elastic
      limbs,—she had so particularly practised those pauses which afforded her an opportunity of
      making the most of her fine person, that her dancing excited pleasure in every
      sense—delighting the eye, producing an effect as of a musical and harmonious feeling in the
      mind, and exciting in the breasts of the male portion of the spectators passions of rapture
      and desire.  
  She literally wantoned in the gay and voluptuous dance; at one moment all rapidity, grace,
      and airiness; at another suddenly falling into a pause expressive of a soft and languishing
      fatigue;—then again becoming all energy, activity, and animation,—representing, in all its
      phases, the soul—the spirit—the very poetry of the dance!  
  At length the toils of her first performance ended. There was not a dissenting voice, when
      she was called for before the curtain. And then, as she came forward, led by the manager,
      flowers fell around her—and handkerchiefs were waved by fair hands—and a thousand enthusiastic
      voices proclaimed her success. Her hopes were gratified—her aspirations were fulfilled:—she
      had achieved a brilliant triumph!  
  
  CHAPTER LXXXIX. THE MYSTERIOUS LETTER.  
  AND now commenced a gay and busy life for Ellen Monroe. To account for her long absence each
      day from home, was an easy matter; for her father was readily satisfied, so implicit was the
      confidence he placed in his daughter's discretion; and Markham was always buried amongst his
      books in his study, save during the intervals occupied by meals.  
  Ellen's salary was considerable; and to dispose of it in a manner that was not calculated to
      excite the suspicion of her parent and benefactor, required more duplicity. She took home with
      her a small amount weekly; and the remainder she placed in the hands of a man of business,
      recommended to her by the manager.  
  Numerous attempts were made by certain young noblemen and gentlemen, who frequented the
      theatre, to ascertain where she resided. But this secret was unknown to every one save the
      manager, and he kept it religiously.  
  Nevertheless, Ellen was persecuted by amatory letters, and by proposals of a tender nature.
      A certain favoured few, of the youthful fashionables above alluded to, were permitted to
      lounge behind the scenes during the hours of performance; and with them Ellen was an object of
      powerful attraction—indeed,   the   object of undivided attention and interest. They
      perceived that she was as beautiful when surveyed near as she seemed when viewed from a
      distance. But, although she would lend a willing ear to the nonsense and small talk of her
      wooers, she gave them no direct encouragement; and, though somewhat free, her manners never
      afforded a pretence even for the most daring to overstep the bounds of decency towards her.
      The most brilliant offers were conveyed to her in the most delicate terms; but they were
      invariably declined with firmness, when oral—and left unanswered, when written.  
  A species of mystery appeared to hang around the charming   danseuse  , and only served
      to render her the more interesting. No one knew who she was, or whence she came. Her residence
      was a secret; and she was seen only at the theatre. Then she was reported to be a very paragon
      of virtue, and had refused the offers of titled and wealthy men. These circumstances invested
      her with those artificial attractions which please the public, and which, when united with her
      real qualifications, raised her to a splendid degree of popularity.  
  Although her time was fully occupied, she now and then found leisure to call at the house of
      Mr. Wentworth, the surgeon, and pass half an hour in the company of her child. The little
      being throve apace; and Ellen felt for it all a mother's tenderness—a love which was not
      impaired by that callousness towards virtue for virtue's sake, which we have before noticed,
      and which had been produced in her by the strange scenes through which she had passed.  
  One evening, a short time before she was to appear in the ballet, the manager informed her
      that a gentleman desired to speak with her alone in the green-room.  
   and, to her surprise, the found herself in the presence of Mr. Greenwood.  
  "Ah! I am not then mistaken," exclaimed that gentleman, with one of his blandest smiles. "I
      saw you last night for the first time; and the moment you appeared upon the stage I knew
      you—that is, I felt almost convinced that it was you. But how happened this strange event in
      your life?"  
  "My benefactor,   Richard Markham  ," answered Ellen, with singular and mysterious
      emphasis upon the name, "is not wealthy—  you   best know why; my father is irretrievably
       ruined—  you   also know how:—and, with all my faults, I could not endure the idea of
      eating the bread of dependence and idleness."  
  "But why did you not apply to me?" demanded Greenwood. "I would have placed you above
      want."  
  "No—I would not for worlds be dependent upon you," replied Ellen warmly. "I appealed to you
      to support my child—  our   child; and you did so. There was only one way in which you
      could have manifested a real generosity towards me—and you refused. The service I asked you
      once upon my knees—with tears and prayers—you rejected:—I implored you to give a father's
      honourable name to your child—I besought you to save the reputation of her whose father was
      ruined through you, and who herself became your victim by a strange combination of
      circumstances. You refused! What   less   could I accept at   your   hands? Do you
      think that I have not my little sentiments of pride as well as you? I could not live idly:—I
      embraced the stage; and my exertions have been crowned with success."  
  "And your father—and Richard—do they know of your present avocation?" demanded Greenwood,
      somewhat abashed by the bitterness of the under-current of reproach which had characterised
      the last speech of the figurante.  
  "God forbid!" cried Ellen. "And yet," she added, after a moment's thought, "I need not be
      ashamed of earning my bread by my own honourable exertions."  
  "And now, Ellen—one more question," said Greenwood. "The child—is he well! Is he taken care
      of?"  
  "He is well—and he is duly cared for," was Ellen's reply; and as she delivered it, she felt
      an emotion—almost of tenderness—in favour of the man who thus inquired, with embarrassment of
      manner, after the welfare of   their   child.  
  Greenwood's quick eye noticed the feeling that animated the young mother's bosom. He took
      her hand, and drew her towards him. She was so exquisitely beautiful—so inviting in the light
      gauze garb which she wore, that Greenwood's passions were fired, and he longed to make her his
      mistress.  
  Her hand lingered in his;—he pressed it gently. She did not seem to notice the circumstance;
      her eyes were cast down—she was absorbed in thought.  
  Greenwood imprinted a kiss upon her spotless forehead.  
  She started, hastily withdrew her hand, and cast upon him a look of mingled curiosity and
      reproach.  
  "Are you astonished that I should bestow a mark of kind feeling upon the mother of my
      child?" asked Greenwood, assuming a soft and tender tone of voice.  
  "That mother," answered Ellen, "whom you abandoned to shame and dishonour!"  
  "Do not reproach me for what is past," said Greenwood.  
  "Would you not act in the same manner over again?" inquired Ellen, darting a searching
      glance at the member of Parliament.  
  "Why this question, Ellen?" exclaimed Greenwood. "Will you not believe me if I tell you that
      I am attached to you? Will you not give me credit for sincerity, when I declare that I would
      gladly exert all the means in my power to make you happy? Why do you look so coldly upon me?
      Listen for a moment, Ellen, to what I am about to say. A few miles from London there is a
      delicious spot—a perfect Paradise upon earth, a villa surrounded by charming grounds, and
      commanding views of the most lovely scenery. That property is for sale: say but the word—I
      will purchase it—it shall be yours; and all the time that I can spare from my numerous
      avocations shall be devoted to Ellen and to love."  
  "The way to that charming villa, so far as you and I are concerned," said Ellen, "must lead
      through the church. Is it thus that you understand it?"  
  "Why destroy the dream of love and happiness which I had formed, by allusion to the formal
      ceremonies of this cold world?" exclaimed Greenwood.  
  "That is the language of every libertine, sir," replied Ellen, with bitter irony. "Do not
      deceive yourself—you cannot deceive me. I would accept the title of your wife, for the sake of
      our child;—but to be your mistress—no, never—never."  
  With these words Ellen left the green-room; and in a few minutes she appeared upon the
      stage—gay, animated, radiant with beauty and with smiles—the very personification of the
      voluptuous dance in which she shone with such unrivalled splendour.  
  Five or six evenings after the one on which she had this interview with Greenwood, Ellen
      received a note by the post. It was addressed to her at the theatre, by the name which she had
      assumed; and its contents ran as follows:—  
  
  "A certain person who is enamoured of you, and who is not accustomed to allow trivial
       obstacles to stand in the way of his designs, has determined upon carrying you forcibly off
       to a secluded spot in the country. He knows where you reside, and has ascertained that you
       return every evening from the theatre in a hackney cab to within a short distance of your
       abode. His plan is to way-lay you during your walk from the place where you descend from the
       vehicle, to your residence. If your suspicions fall upon any person of your acquaintance,
       after a perusal of this note, beware how you tax him with the vile intent;—beware how you
       communicate this warning, for by any imprudence on your part, you may deprive the writer of
       the means of counteracting in future the infamous designs which the individual above alluded
       to may form against yourself or others."  
  
  This note was written in a neat but curious hand, which seemed to be that of a foreigner.
      The reader can well imagine the painful surprise which its contents produced upon the young
      figurante. She however had no difficulty in fixing upon Greenwood as the person who
      contemplated the atrocity revealed in that note.  
  He alone (save the manager, who was an honourable and discreet man) knew where she lived;
      unless, indeed, some other amatory swain had followed her homeward. This idea perplexed her—it
      was possible; and yet she could not help thinking that Greenwood was the person against whom
      she was thus warned.  
  But who had sent her that friendly notice? Who was the mysterious individual that had thus
      generously placed her upon her guard? Conjecture was useless. She must think only of how she
      ought to act!  
   of Markham's house, and trust to her ingenuity for an excuse to satisfy her
      father relative to this apparent extravagance on her part. Both Richard and Mr. Monroe put
      implicit confidence in her word;—she had already satisfactorily accounted for the late hours
      which her attendance at the theatre compelled her to keep, by stating that she was engaged to
      attend private concerts and musical conversaziones at the West End—sometimes, even, at
      Blackheath, Kensington, and Clapham—where she presided at the piano, in which she was a
      proficient. Then, when she was compelled to be present at rehearsals at the theatre, she
      stated that she had morning concerts to attend; and as she was not absent from home every day
      (her engagement with the manager being merely to appear three nights a-week) this system of
      deception on her part readily obtained credit with both Markham and her father, neither of
      whom could seriously object to what they were induced to believe was the legitimate exercise
      of her accomplishments. Accordingly, when, on the morning after the receipt of the mysterious
      letter, she casually mentioned that she should no longer return home of an evening by the
      omnibus, as she disliked the lonely walk from the main-road, where it set her down, to the
      Place, and that her emoluments would now permit her to enjoy the comfort and safety of a cab,
      both Richard and her father earnestly commended her resolution.  
  And why did she not tell the truth at once? wherefore did she not acknowledge the career
      which she was pursuing, and reveal the triumph which she had achieved?  
  Because she knew that both her father and Markham would oppose themselves to the idea of her
      exercising the profession of a dancer;—because she had commenced a system of duplicity, and
      was almost necessitated to persevere in it;—and because she really loved—ardently loved—the
      course upon which she had entered. The applause of crowded audiences—the smiles of the
      manager—the adulation of the young nobles and gentlemen who, behind the scenes, complimented
      her upon her success, her talents, and her beauty,—these were delights which she would not
      very readily abandon.  
  
  CHAPTER XC. MARKHAM'S OCCUPATIONS.  
  SINCE the period when Markham had made so great a sacrifice of his pecuniary resources, in
      order to effect the liberation of Count Alteroni from a debtor's prison, he had devoted
      himself to literary pursuits. He aspired to the honours of authorship, and composed a
      tragedy.  
  All young authors, while yet nibbling the grass at the foot of Parnassus (and how many never
      reach any higher!) attempt either poetry or the drama. They invariably fix upon the most
      difficult tasks; and yet they did not begin learning Greek with Euripides, nor enter upon
      their initiation into the mysteries of the Latin tongue with Juvenal.  
  There is also another fault into which they invariably fall;—and that is an extraordinary
      tendency to three meretricious ornaments which they seem to mistake for fine writing. Truth
      and nature may be regarded as a noble flock, furnishing the richest fleece to mankind; but
      when a series of good writers have exhausted their fleece in weaving the fabrics of genius,
      their successors are tempted to have recourse to swine for a supply of materials; and we know,
      besides, that in this attempt, as in the rude dramas called "Moralities" in the middle ages,
      there is great cry and little wool. It is also liable to the objection that no skill in the
      workmanship, or adjustment in the machinery, can give it the beauty and perfection of the raw
      material which nature has appropriated to the purpose of clothing her favoured offspring.  
  Too many writers of the present day, instead of attempting to rival their predecessors in
      endeavouring to fabricate the genuine fleece derived from this flock of truth and nature, into
      new and exquisite forms, are engaged in shearing the swine. In this labour they can obtain, at
      best, nothing more than erroneous principles of science, worthless paradoxes, unnatural
      fictions, tinsel poetry and prose, and unnumbered crudities.  
  Richard Markham was not exempted from these faults. He wrote a tragedy—abounding in
      beauties, and abounding in faults.  
  The most delicious sweets, used in undue proportions with our food and drink, soon become in
      a high degree offensive and disgusting. Markham heaped figure upon figure—crammed his speeches
      with metaphors—and travelled many thousands of miles out of his way in search of a similitude,
      when he had a much better and more simple one close at hand. Nevertheless, his tragedy
      contained proofs of a brilliant talent, and, with much judicious pruning, every element of
      triumphant success.  
  Having obtained the address of the private residence of the manager of one of the principal
      metropolitan theatres, Richard sent his tragedy to the great man. He, however, withheld his
      real name, for he had determined to commence his literary career under a feigned one; so that,
      in case he should prove unsuccessful, his failure might not become known to his friends the
      Monroes, or reach the ears of his well-beloved Isabella. For the same reason he did not give
      his proper address in the letter which accompanied the drama; but requested that a reply might
      be sent to   Edward Preston, to the care of Mr. Dyson   (his solicitor).  
  He did not mention to a single soul—not even to Monroe or the faithful Whittingham—the
      circumstance of his authorship. He reflected that if he succeeded, it would then be time to
      communicate his happiness; but, that if he failed, it would be useless to wound others by
      imparting to them his disappointments. He had ceased to be sanguine about any thing in this
      world; for he had met with too many misfortunes to anticipate much success in life; and his
      only ambition was to obtain an honourable livelihood.  
  Scarcely a week had elapsed after Markham had sent his drama to the manager, when he
      received a letter from this gentleman. The contents were laconic enough, but explicit. The
      manager "had perused the tragedy with feelings of extreme satisfaction;"—he congratulated the
      writer upon "the skill which he had made his combinations to produce stage effect;"—he
      suggested "a few alterations and considerable abbreviations;" and concluded by stating that
      "he should be most happy to introduce so promising an author to the public." A postscript
      appointed a time for an interview at the manager's own private residence.  
  At eleven o'clock the next morning Markham was ushered into the presence of the manager.  
   age—gentlemanly and affable in manner—and possessed of considerable literary
      abilities.  
  "Sit down, sir—pray, sit down," said the manager, when Markham was introduced. "I have
      perused your tragedy with great attention, and am pleased with it. I am, moreover, perfectly
      willing to undertake the risk of bringing it out, although tragedy is at a terrible discount
      now-a-days. But, first and foremost, we most make arrangements about terms. What price do you
      put upon your manuscript?"  
  "I have formed no idea upon that subject," replied Markham. "I would rather leave myself
      entirely in your hands."  
  "Nay—you must know the hope you have entertained in this respect?" said the manager.  
  "To tell you the candid truth, this is my first essay," returned Markham; "and I am totally
      unacquainted with the ordinary value of such labour."  
  "If this be your first essay, sir," said the manager, surveying Markham with some
      astonishment, "I can only assure you that it is a most promising one. But once again—name your
      price."  
  "The manner in which you speak to me shows that if I trust to your generosity, I shall not
      do wrong."  
  "Well, Mr. Preston," cried the manager, pleased at this compliment, "I shall use you in an
      equally liberal manner. You must be informed that you will have certain pecuniary privileges,
      in respect to any provincial theatres at which your piece may be performed should it prove
      successful; and you will also have the benefit of the publication of the work in a volume.
      What, then, should you say if I were to give you fifty guineas for the play, and five guineas
      a-night for every time of its performance, after the first fortnight?"  
  "I should esteem your offer a very liberal one," answered Richard, overjoyed at the
      proposal.  
  "In that case the bargain is concluded at once, and without any more words," said the
      manager; then, taking a well-filled canvass bag from his desk, he counted down fifty guineas
      in notes, gold, and silver.  
  Markham gave a receipt, and they exchanged undertakings specifying the conditions proposed
      by the manager.  
  "When do you propose to bring out the piece?" inquired Richard, when this business was
      concluded.  
  "In about six weeks," said the manager. "Shall you have any objection to attend the
      rehearsals, and see that the gentlemen and ladies of the company fully appreciate the spirit
      of the parts that will be assigned to them?"  
  "I shall not have the least objection," answered Markham; "but I am afraid that my
      experience——"  
  "Well, well," said the manager, smiling, "I will not press you. Leave it all to me—I will
      see justice done to your design, which I think I understand pretty well. If I want you I will
      let you know; and if you do not hear from me, you will see by the advertisements in the
      newspapers for what night the first representation will be announced."  
  Markham expressed his gratitude to the manager for the kindness with which he had received
      him, and then took his leave, his heart elated with hope, and his mind relieved from much
      anxiety respecting the future.  
  When he left the manager's residence he repaired to an adjacent tavern to procure some
      refreshment; and there, while engaged in the discussion of a sandwich and a glass of sherry,
      he cast his eyes over   The Times   newspaper.  
  A particular advertisement arrested his attention.  
  A gentleman—a widower—required a daily tutor for his two young sons, whom he was desirous of
      having instructed in Latin, history, drawing, arithmetic, &amp;c. The boys were respectively
      nine and eleven years old. The advertiser stated that any individual who could himself teach
      the various branches of education specified, would be preferred to a plurality of masters,
      each proficient only in one particular study. Personal application was to be made between
      certain hours.  
  The residence of the advertiser was in Kentish Town; and this vicinity to Markham's own
      abode induced him to think seriously of offering his services. He did not feel disposed to
      pursue his literary labours until after the representation of his drama, as he was as yet
      unaware of the reception it might experience at the hands of the public;—and he was also by no
      means inclined to remain idle. The occupation of daily tutor in a respectable family appeared
      congenial to his tastes; and he resolved to proceed forthwith to the residence of Mr. Gregory,
      in Kentish Town.  
  Arrived at the house, he was admitted into the presence of a gentleman of about fifty, with
      a serious and melancholy countenance, prepossessing manners, and a peculiar suavity of voice
      that gave encouragement to the applicant.  
  Markham told him in a few words that he was once possessed of considerable property, the
      greater portion of which he had lost through the unfortunate speculations of his guardian, and
      that he was now anxious to turn the excellent education which he had received to some
      advantage.  
  Mr. Gregory had only lately arrived in London with his family, from a very distant part of
      the country, where he had a house and small estate; but the recent death of a beloved wife had
      rendered the scenes of their wedded happiness disagreeable to him;—and this was the cause of
      his removal and his settlement in London. He lived in a very retired manner, and had
      previously known nothing of Markham—not even his name. He was therefore totally ignorant of
      Richard's trial and condemnation for forgery. The young man felt the greatest possible
      inclination to reveal the entire facts to Mr. Gregory, whose amiable manners gave him
      confidence; but he restrained himself—for it struck him that others were dependent upon
      him—that he ought not to stand in his own light—and that his innocence of the crime imputed to
      him, and the consciousness of those upright and honourable intentions which on all occasions
      filled his breast, were a sufficient extenuation for this silence.  
  Mr. Gregory, who was himself a highly-educated man, soon saw that Markham was competent to
      teach his children all that it was desirable for them to acquire; and he agreed to engage the
      applicant as his sons' tutor. Richard offered to give him a reference to his solicitor; but
      Mr. Gregory declined to take it, saying, "Your appearance, Mr. Markham, is sufficient."  
  On the following day Richard entered upon his new avocation. He was engaged to attend at Mr.
      Gregory's house from ten till three every day. The employment was a pleasant one; and the
      pecuniary terms were liberal in the extreme.  
    
  From the mere fact of having never been accustomed to tuition, Richard took the greater
      pains to explain all difficult subjects to them; and so well did he adapt his plan of
      instruction to their juvenile capacities, that in the short space of a month, Mr. Gregory was
      himself perfectly astonished at the advance which his sons had made in their studies. He then
      determined that the advantages of the tutor's abilities should be extended to his daughter, in
      respect to drawing; and Miss Mary-Anne Gregory was accordingly added to the number of
      Markham's pupils.  
  Mary-Anne was, at the time of which we are writing, sixteen years of age. Delicate in
      constitution, and of a sweet and amiable disposition, she was an object of peculiar interest
      to all who knew her. Her long flaxen hair, soft blue eyes, pale countenance, and vermilion
      lips, gave her the appearance of a wax figure; and her light and airy form, flitting ever
      hither and thither in obedience to the innocent gaiety and vivacity of her disposition, seemed
      that of some fairy whose destinies belonged not to the common lot of mortals.  
  Although she was sixteen, she was considered but a mere girl; and she romped with her
      brothers, and with the young female friends who occasionally visited her, with all the
      joyousness and glee of a child of ten years old.  
  The animation of her countenance was on those occasions radiant and brilliant in the
      extreme:—a spectator could have snatched her to his arms and embraced her fondly,—not with a
      single gross desire—not with the shadow of an unhallowed motive; but, in the same way as a
      man, who, being a parent himself, is attached to children, suddenly seizes upon a lovely
      little boy or girl of two or three years old, and covers its cheeks with kisses.  
  Mary-Anne was by no means beautiful—not even pretty; and yet there was something altogether
      unearthly in the whole character and expression of her countenance. It was a face of angelic
      interest—indicative of a mental amiability and serenity truly divine.  
  Without possessing the ingredients of physical beauty—without regularity of feature or
      classical formation of head,—there was still about her an abstract loveliness, apart from
      shape and features, which was of itself positive and distinct, and seemed an emanation of
      mental qualities, infantine joyousness, and winning manners. It produced a sort of atmosphere
      of light around her—enveloping her as with a halo of innocence.  
  Her face was as pale—as colourless as the finest Parian marble, but also, like the surface
      of that beautiful material, spotless and devoid of blemish. Her pure forehead was streaked
      with small azure veins: her lips were thin, and of the brightest vermilion; and these hues
      placed in contrast with that delicate complexion, gave a sentiment and expression to her
      countenance altogether peculiar to itself.  
  Her eyes, of a light and yet too positive a blue to be mistaken for grey, were fringed with
      long dark lashes, which imparted to them—ever gay and sparkling as they were—a magic eloquence
      as powerful as that of the most faultless beauty. And, again, in strange contrast with those
      dark lashes was her flaxen hair, the whole of which fell in ringlets and in waves over her
      shoulders and her back, no portion of it being collected in a knot behind.  
  Then her form—it was so slight as to appear almost etherealised, and yet there was no
      mistaking the symmetry of its proportions.  
  Thus—without being actually beautiful—Mary-Anne was a creature of light and joy who was
      calculated to interest, fascinate, and win, in a manner which produced feelings of admiration
      and of love. Her appearance therefore produced upon the mind an impression that she
         was   beautiful—very beautiful; and yet, if any one had paused to analyse her
      features, she would have been found to possess no real elements of physical loveliness. She
      was charming—fascinating—bewitching—interesting; therefore lovely in one sense, and loveable
      in all respects!  
  Mary-Anne was a very difficult pupil to teach. In the midst of the most serious study, that
      charming and volatile creature would start from her chair, run to her piano, and commence a
      lively air, which she would leave also unfinished, and then narrate some sprightly anecdote,
      or utter some artless sally, which would create a general laugh.  
  The seriousness of the tutor would be disturbed in spite of himself: and even her father, if
      present, could not find it in his heart to scold.  
  The drawing would at length be resumed; and for half an hour, the application of Mary-Anne
      would be intense. Then away would be flung the pencil; and a new freak must be accomplished
      before the study would be resumed.  
  Richard could not help liking this volatile, but artless and innocent creature,—as a man
      likes his daughter or his sister; and she, on her part, appeared to become greatly attached to
      her tutor.  
  Although Mr. Gregory followed no profession, being a man of considerable independent
      property, he was nevertheless much from home, passing his time either at the library of the
      British Museum or at his Club. Richard and Mary-Anne were thus much together,—too much for the
      peace of that innocent and fascinating girl!  
  She speedily conceived a violent passion for her tutor, which he, however, neither perceived
      nor returned.  
  She was herself unaware of the nature of her own feelings towards him;—she knew as much of
      love and its sensations as a beauteous savage girl, in some far-off isle, knows of
      Christianity;—and hers was an attachment which could only be revealed to herself by some
      accident, which might excite her jealousy or awaken her grief.  
  One morning, before the usual lessons of the day commenced, Mr. Gregory entered the study,
      and, addressing himself to Markham, said, "We must now give the young people a holiday for a
      short time. Proper relaxation is as necessary to their bodily welfare as education to their
      mental well-being. We will suspend their studies for a month, if you be agreeable, Mr.
      Markham. I shall, however, be always pleased to see you as often as you choose to call during
      that interval; and every Sunday, at all events, we shall expect the pleasure of your company
      to dinner as usual."  
  "What!" cried Mary-Anne; "is Mr. Markham to discontinue his daily visits for a whole
      month?"  
  "Certainly, my dear," said her father. "Mr. Markham requires a holiday as well as you."  
  "I want no holiday," exclaimed Mary-Anne, pouting her lips in a manner that was quite
      charming, and which might remind the reader of the   petite moue   that Esmeralda was
      accustomed to make in Victor Hugo's admirable novel   Notre Dame de Paris  .  
  "But   you    
  "Well, I wish Mr. Markham to take the trouble to come every morning and give me my drawing
      lesson," said the young lady, with a little air of decision and firmness, which was quite
      comic in its way; "and if he will not," she added, "then I will never learn to draw any
      more—and that is decided."  
  Mr. Gregory surveyed his daughter with an air of astonishment.  
  Probably he half penetrated   the   secret—for her passion could not be called
         her   secret, because she was totally unconscious of the nature of her feelings, and
      sought to conceal nothing.  
  Had she been aware of the real sentiment which she experienced, she would have at once
      revealed it; for she was guileless and unsuspicious—ignorant of all deceit—devoid of all
      hypocrisy—and endowed with as much simplicity and artlessness as a child of six years old.  
  "Mr. Markham must have a holiday, my dear," said Mr. Gregory, at length, with a peculiar
      emphasis; "and I beg that no further objection may be offered."  
  Mary-Anne instantly burst into tears, exclaiming, in a voice almost choked with sobs, "Mr.
      Markham   may   have   his   holiday, if he likes; but I will not learn any thing
      more of him when the studies begin again."  
  And she retired in a pet to another apartment.  
  Markham was himself astonished at this singular behaviour on the part of his interesting
      pupil.  
  He was, however, far from suspecting the real cause, and took his leave with a promise to
      return to dinner on the following Sunday, until which time there was then an interval of five
      days.  
  Three days after the one on which the above conversation took place, Markham was about to
      issue from his dwelling to proceed into town for the purpose of calling upon the manager, as
      he had that morning seen his drama advertised for early representation,—when Whittingham
      informed him that a young lady desired to speak to him In the drawing-room.  
  The idea of Isabella instantly flashed through the mind of Richard:—but would   she  
      call upon him, alone and unattended? No—for Isabella, was modesty and prudence
      personified.  
  Then, who could it be?  
  Markham asked this question of his butler.  
  "A remarkable sweet creatur," said Whittingham; "and come quite spontaneous like. Beautiful
      flaxy hair—blue eyes—pale complexion—"  
  "Impossible! you do not say   that  , Whittingham?" cried Markham, on whom a light now
      broke.  
  "Do I look like a man that speaks evasiously, Master Richard?" demanded the butler, shifting
      his inseparable companion—the white napkin—from beneath one arm to the other.  
  Markham repaired to the drawing-room:—his suspicions were verified;—the moment he entered
      the apartment, he beheld Miss Gregory seated upon the sofa.  
  "Well, Mr. Markham," she said, extending to him her hand, and smiling so sweetly with her
      vermilion lips, which disclosed a set of teeth not quite even, but as white as ivory, that
      Richard could not find it in his heart to be angry with her; "I was resolved not to pass the
      day without seeing you; and as you would not come to me, I was compelled to come to you."  
  "But, Miss Gregory," said Markham, "are you not aware that you have taken a most imprudent
      step, and that the world would highly censure your conduct?"  
  "Why?" demanded Mary-Anne, in astonishment.  
  "Because ladies, no matter whether single or married, never call upon single gentlemen; and
      society has laid down certain rules in this respect, which—"  
  "My dear Mr. Markham, you are not giving me a lesson now, remember, in my father's study,"
      interrupted Mary-Anne, laughing heartily. "I know nothing about the rules of society in this
      respect, or that respect, or any other respect. All I know is, that I cried all night long
      after you left us the other day; and I have been very miserable until this morning, when I
      suddenly recollected that I knew your address, and could come and call on you."  
  "If your father were to know that you came hither," said Richard, "he would never forgive
      you, nor ever see me again."  
  "Well, then, all we have to do is not to tell my father any thing about the matter," said
      Mary-Anne, with considerable ingenuousness. "But how cross you look; and I—I thought," she
      added, ready to cry, "that you would be as pleased to see me as I am to see you."  
  "Yes, Miss Gregory—I   am   pleased to see you—I am always pleased to see you,"
      answered Markham, by way of soothing the poor girl; "but you must allow me to assure you that
      this step is the most imprudent—the most thoughtless in the world. I really tremble for the
      consequences—should your father happen to hear of it."  
  "I tell you over and over again," persisted Miss Gregory, "that my papa shall never know any
      thing at all about the matter. Now, then, pray don't be cross; but tell me that you are glad
      to see me. Speak, Mr. Markham—are you glad to see me?"  
  "How shall I ever be able to convince this artless young creature of the impropriety of her
      conduct?" murmured Richard within himself. "To argue with her too long and too forcibly upon
      the subject would be to instruct her innocent mind in the evils and vices of society, and to
      imbue her with ideas which are as yet like a foreign and a strange tongue to her! Innocence,
      then, is not a pearl of invaluable price to its possessor, in this world,—since it can so
      readily prepare the path which   might   lead to ruin!"  
  "You do not answer me—you are thoughtful—you will not speak to me," said Mary Ann, rising
      from the sofa, with tears in her eyes, and preparing—or rather affecting an intention to
      depart.  
  Markham still gave her no reply.  
  He was grieved—deeply grieved to wound her feelings; but he thought that it would be better
      to allow her to return home at once, with sentiments of pique and wounded pride which would
      prevent a repetition of the same step, than to initiate her into those social mysteries which
      would only give an impulse to her lively imagination that would probably prove morally
      injurious to her.  
  But Mary Anne was incapable of harbouring resentment; and she burst into an agony of
      grief.  
  "Oh! how unkind you are, Mr. Markham," she exclaimed, "after all my endeavours to please
      you! I thought that you would have experienced as much joy to see me, as I felt when I saw you
      enter the room. Since the day that I lost my dear mother—upwards of nine years ago—I have
      never loved any one so much as I love you—no, not even my father; for I feel that at this
      moment I could dare even   his   death of my mother I have never sought my couch without resigning my soul into
      the hands of God, and without demanding of him an insight into truth and virtue. But now I
      would rather entrust my safety to you; and I would rather learn all I should know from your
      lips than from those of another! You ought, therefore, to treat me with more kindness and
      consideration than you have done up to this moment;—you should bestow upon me an additional
      share of your attention and notice,—because I am anxious to please you—I would do any thing to
      save you pain—I would lay down my life to ensure a prolongation of yours!"  
  Mary-Anne had never spoken so seriously, nor in so impassioned a manner, in her life before.
      She was even astonished herself at the very ideas which she was now expressing for the first
      time, and which seemed to flow from some inward fountain whose springs she could not
      check.  
  Markham was astounded.  
  He suddenly comprehended the true situation of the innocent and artless girl in respect to
      himself.  
  A pang shot through his heart when he considered the impossibility of her happiness ever
      being ensured by his means; and he thought within himself, "Alas! poor child, she does not
      rightly comprehend the state of her own mind!"  
  But how could this love of hers be stifled? how could that passion be suppressed?  
  All the remedies yet essayed to quench and annihilate love, have changed into poisons;—even
      violent and unexpected lessons will not always make the heart reflect.  
  The more the slave bends, the heavier becomes the yoke: the more a man employs an unjust
      force, the more will injustice become necessary to his views. No one should attempt to
      exercise tyranny upon proud souls; for he will readily learn that it is not easy to triumph
      over and trample on a noble love. Error succeeds error—outrage follows upon outrage—and
      bitterness increases like a torrent whose embankments have given way. Who can define the
      termination of these ravages? Will not the tender and affectionate woman, whose love man may
      endeavour to stifle by coldness or neglect, perish in the ruin?   She   will succumb to
      tears and to devouring cares—even while the   love   which she cherishes still preserves
      all its vigour, and loses nothing of its ardour through intense suffering!  
  Markham knew not how to reply to that affectionate girl, whose spirit he dared not break by
      his unkindness,—whose passion he could not return, because his heart was devoted to
      another,—and whose mind he was afraid to enlighten with regard to those social duties which
      originated in reasons and motives totally unknown to her.  
  "Mr. Markham," said Mary-Anne, wiping away her tears, "tell me that you are not angry with
      me for calling: and, as you say it is not right, I will never come again."  
  "Angry with you, Miss Gregory, I cannot be," exclaimed Markham. "But I ought to tell you
      that you must not give way to that feeling of—of—preference towards me—"  
  "Oh! I suppose that the rules of society also prevent a single lady from liking a single
      gentleman?" interrupted Mary-Anne pettishly.  
  "No rules can control volition, Miss Gregory," said Richard, cruelly embarrassed how to
      explain himself to the young lady; "but if you tell me that you prefer me to your father—"  
  "And so I do," exclaimed Mary-Anne quickly.  
  "Then you are wrong," returned Markham.  
  "Wrong, indeed! and yet you have just told me that no rules can control volition."  
  "True; but we must endeavour to conquer those feelings. You say that you like me?—suppose
      that we were never to meet again; would you not then learn to forget that you ever knew such a
      being?"  
  "Impossible! never—never!" cried Mary-Anne enthusiastically. "I am always thinking of
      you!"  
  "But the time must come, some day or another—whether now, or a year, or ten years hence—when
      we must cease to meet. I may be married—or you yourself may marry—"  
  "Married!" ejaculated Mary-Anne: "do you think of marrying, then, Mr. Markham?"  
  "I am certainly attached to a young lady," replied Richard; "but there are circumstances
      which—"  
  "You are attached to a young lady? Is she beautiful—very beautiful?"  
  "Very beautiful," answered Richard.  
  Mary-Anne remained silent for some moments: she appeared to reflect profoundly.  
  A sudden glow of animation flushed her cheek:—was it a light that dawned in upon her
      soul?  
  Richard sincerely hoped so.  
  "Mr. Markham," said Mary-Anne, rising from her seat, and speaking in a tone so serious that
      Richard could scarcely believe he was now listening to the once volatile, sprightly,
      thoughtless, and playful creature he had known,—"Mr. Markham, I have to apologise most
      sincerely for the trouble I have given you, and the intrusion of which I have been guilty. A
      veil has suddenly fallen from my eyes; and I now comprehend the impropriety of my conduct. Ah!
      I see what you mean by the laws of society. But God—and you also, Mr. Markham, well know the
      innocence of my motives in calling this morning upon you; and if my friendship for you has
      betrayed me into error, I beseech you to forget that such a scene has ever taken place."  
  She shook hands with Richard with her usual cordiality and warmth, and then took her
      departure—no longer skipping like the young fawn, but with steady and measured pace.  
  And still that young girl did not dream that love had influenced her conduct;—she continued
      to believe that the sentiment she experienced was one of friendship. The idea of Richard's
      marriage with another had only enlightened her in respect to those laws which, as social and
      sympathetic beings, we have conventionally enacted.  
  On the ensuing Sunday Markham dined, according to engagement, with Mr. Gregory.  
  Mary-Anne was present; and striking was the change which had taken place in her!  
  Her manners were no longer gay, joyous, confiding, and full of animation. As sickness chases
      from the cheek the flush of hoyden health, so had a new sentiment banished that sprightliness
      of disposition and that liveliness of temperament which so lately had characterised this
         child of nature  .  
  Love, then, is omnipotent, if he can effect such changes as these! Alas! Love can work much
      for our unhappiness, but little for our felicity:—he may make the gladsome companion
      melancholy and serious; but he seldom covers the countenance of the morose one with
      smiles!  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  In the grotesque and colossal sculptures, and the mountainous architectural piles of the
      East, we seem to behold the products of an imagination struggling with conceptions too vast
      for its compass, and hence endeavouring to make some approximation to the reality by heaping
      up the irregular and huge invisible forms;—and thus did the tortured and embarrassed mind of
      this poor girl, unacquainted with the precise nature of the sentiment it cherished, maintain a
      conflict with the feelings which oppressed it, and offer up an idolatry of its own invention
      to the object of its unbounded veneration.  
  Mr. Gregory could not but perceive this change in his daughter's behaviour; and he was more
      or less at a loss to conceive the cause.  
  He had entertained, for a few days previously, a faint suspicion that Mary-Anne had
      peradventure formed an attachment, which would thus account for her altered demeanour; for
      since her call upon Markham, had her manners changed. But the good-hearted father was still
      loth to believe that his daughter's young heart had been smitten—and for the simple reason
      because he did not wish it to be so.  
  Although he respected Markham, he was like all parents, who, possessing fortunes themselves,
      are anxious that the suitors for their daughters' hands should also be enabled to produce a
      modicum of this world's lucre.  
  He was therefore unwilling to admit in his own mind the conviction that his suspicion was
      well-founded: he fancied that change of scene or amusement would probably operate favourably
      upon his daughter's mind, and bring her spirits back to their proper tone; and in this
      resolution was he confirmed, when in the course of that Sunday evening, he saw the
      confirmation of his suspicion. He could no longer doubt:—a thousand little incidents proved to
      him the attachment of his daughter to Richard Markham; and his quick glance convinced him that
      she was   not   loved by her tutor in return.  
   short time, and thereby ascertain whether the attachment gained ground on the
      part of his daughter, and whether it would become mutual (for he was entirely ignorant of
      Markham's love for another); and at length he resolved upon dispensing with the services of
      Richard, and trusting to time to eradicate the seeds of the unfortunate passion from the heart
      of Mary-Anne.  
  This plan Mr. Gregory put into execution in the course of a few days—indeed, the very next
      time that Richard called at his house.  
  "Mr. Markham," said the father, "I deeply regret that certain circumstances, which it is not
      necessary for me to explain to you, compel me to dispense with your farther attendance upon my
      children."  
  "I hope," said Markham, "that I have given you no cause——"  
  "Not at all—not in the least," interrupted Mr. Gregory, shaking Richard cordially by the
      hand: then, in a serious tone, he added, "my daughter's health requires rest—repose—and quiet.
      I shall see no visitors for some time."  
  Markham was satisfied. Mr. Gregory had heard nothing prejudicial to his character; but he
      had evidently penetrated into the state of Mary-Anne's feelings. Richard was delighted to be
      thus dismissed from a house where his presence was only calculated to destroy the more
      profoundly the peace of one of its inmates:—indeed, he himself had already entertained serious
      ideas of severing his connexion with that family.  
  "If I can at any time be of service to you, Mr. Markham, in any way, you may command me,"
      said Mr. Gregory, when the former rose to depart; "and do not think that I am merely uttering
      a cold ceremonial phrase, when I desire you to make use of me as a friend, should you ever
      require one."  
  Richard thanked Mr. Gregory for his kindness, and took leave of him. He also bade adieu to
      Gustavus and Lionel, both of whom were deeply affected at the idea of losing the visits of
      their tutor:—but Mary-Anne had been purposely sent to pass a few days with some friends in the
      country.  
  
  CHAPTER XCI. THE TRAGEDY.  
  AT length the evening, upon which the tragedy was to be represented for the first time,
      arrived.  
  Markham in the mean time had seen little of the manager, and had not attended a single
      rehearsal, his presence for that purpose not having been required. Moreover, true to his
      original intentions, he had not acquainted a soul with his secret relative to the drama. The
      manager still knew him only as Edward Preston; and the advertisements in the newspapers had
      announced the "forth-coming tragedy" as one that had "emanated from the pen of a young author
      of considerable promise, but who had determined to maintain a strict   incognito   until
      the public verdict should have been pronounced upon his piece."  
  A short time before the doors opened, Richard proceeded to the theatre, and called upon the
      manager, who received him in his own private apartment.  
  "Well, Mr. Preston," said the theatrical monarch, "this evening will decide the fate of the
      tragedy. A few hours, and we shall know more."  
  "I hope you still think well of it," returned Markham.  
  "My candid opinion is that the success will be triumphant," said the manager. "I have spared
      no expense to get up the piece well; and I am very sanguine. Besides, I have another element
      of success."  
  "What is that?" inquired Richard.  
  "My principal ballet-dancer, who is a beautiful creature and a general favourite—Miss Selina
      Fitzherbert—"  
  "I have heard of her fame," said Markham, "but have never seen her. Strange as it may
      appear, I never visit theatres—I have not done so for years."  
  "You will visit them often enough if your productions succeed," observed the manager with a
      smile. "But, as I was saying, Miss Fitzherbert has lately manifested a passionate desire to
      shine in tragedy; and she will make her   debut   in that sphere to-night, in your piece.
      She will play the   Baron's Daughter  ."  
  "Which character does not appear until the commencement of the third act," said Markham.  
  "Precisely," observed the manager. "But time is now drawing on. Where will you remain during
      the performance?"  
  "I shall proceed into the body of the house," returned Markham, "and take my seat in one of
      the central boxes—I mean those precisely fronting the stage. I shall be able to judge of the
      effect better in that part of the house than elsewhere."  
  "As you please," said the manager. "But mind and let me see you after the performance."  
  Richard promised compliance with this request, and then proceeded into the house, where he
      took a seat in the centre of the amphitheatre.  
  The doors had been opened a few minutes previously, and the house was filling fast. By
      half-past six it was crowded from pit to roof. The boxes were filled with elegantly-dressed
      ladies and fashionable gentlemen: there was not room to thrust another spectator into any one
      point at the moment when the curtain drew up.  
  The overture commenced. How long it appeared to Markham, passionately fond of music though
      he was!  
  At length it ceased; and the First Act commenced.  
  For some time a profound silence pervaded the audience:—not a voice, not a murmur, not a
      sigh, gave the slightest demonstration of either approbation or dislike.  
  But, at length, at the conclusion of a most impressive soliloquy, which was delivered by the
      hero of the piece, one universal burst of applause broke forth; and the theatre rang with the
      sounds of human tongues and the clapping of hands. When the First Act ended, the opinion of
      the audience was decisive in favour of the piece; and the manager felt persuaded that "it was
      a hit."  
  This was one of the happiest moments of Markham's existence—that existence which had
      latterly presented so few green spots to please the mental eye of the wanderer in the world's
      desert. His veins seemed to run with liquid fire!—a delirium of joy seized upon him—he was
      inebriated with excess of bliss.  
  Around him the spectators were expressing their opinions of the first act, little suspecting
      that the author of the piece was so near. All those sentiments were unequivocally in favour of
      the tragedy.  
  The Second Act began—progressed—terminated.  
   the audience received the development of the drama, nor the interest which it
      seemed to excite.  
  Inspired by the applause that greeted them, the performers exerted all their efforts; and
      the excellence of the tragedy, united with the talent of the actors and the beauty of the
      scenery, achieved a triumph not often witnessed within the walls of that or any other
      theatre.  
  The Third Act commenced. Selina Fitzherbert appeared upon the stage; and her presence was
      welcomed with rapturous applause.  
  She came forward, and acknowledged the kindness of the audience with a graceful curtsey.  
  Markham surveyed her with interest, in consequence of the manner in which her name had been
      mentioned to him by the manager;—but that interest grew more profound, and was gradually
      associated with feelings of extreme surprise, suspense, and uncertainty, for he fancied that
      if ever he saw Ellen Monroe in his life, there was she—or else her living counterpart—before
      him—an actress playing a part in his own drama!  
  He was stupefied;—he strained his eyes—he leant forward—he borrowed the opera-glass of a
      gentleman seated next to him;—and the more he gazed, the more he felt convinced that he beheld
      Ellen Monroe in the person of Selina Fitzherbert.  
  At length the actress spoke: wonder upon wonder—it was Ellen's voice—her intonation—her
      accent—her style of speaking.  
  Markham was amazed—confounded.  
  He inquired of his neighbour whether Selina Fitzherbert was the young lady's real name, or
      an assumed one.  
  The gentleman to whom he spoke did not know.  
  "How long has she been upon the stage?"  
  "Between two and three months; and, strange to say, it is rumoured that she only took two
      months to render herself so proficient a dancer as she is. But she now appears to be equally
      fine in tragedy. Listen!"  
  Markham could ask no more questions; for his neighbour became all attention towards the
      piece.  
  Richard reviewed in a moment, in his mind, all the principal appearances and characteristics
      of Ellen's life during the last few months,—the lateness of her hours—the constancy of her
      employment—and a variety of circumstances, which only now struck him, but which tended to
      ratify his suspicion that she was indeed Selina Fitzherbert.  
  His attention was withdrawn from his own piece; and he determined to convince himself at
      once upon this head.  
  Taking advantage of the termination of the first scene in the third act, he left the box,
      and proceeded behind the scenes of the theatre. But while he was on his way thither, it struck
      him that if his suspicions were correct, and if he appeared too suddenly in the presence of
      Ellen, he would perhaps so disconcert her as to render her unfit to proceed with the part
      entrusted to her. He accordingly concealed himself in a dark corner, behind some scene-boards,
      and whence he could see plainly, but where he himself could not be very readily
      discovered.  
  He did not wait long ere his doubts were cleared up. In a few minutes after he had taken his
      post in the obscure nook, Ellen passed close by him. She was conversing with another
      actress.  
  "Have you seen the author?" said the latter.  
  "No—not yet," replied Ellen. "But the manager has promised us that pleasure when the curtain
      fails."  
  "He has made a brilliant hit."  
  "Yes," said Ellen. "He need not have been so bashful if he had known his own powers, or
      foreseen this success. The greatest mystery has been preserved about him: he never once came
      to rehearsal; and the prompter who copied out my part for me from the original manuscript,
      tells me that he is convinced the author is quite a novice in dramatic composition, by the way
      in which the piece was written—I mean, there were not in the manuscript any of those hints and
      suggestions which an experienced writer would have introduced."  
  "I really quite long to see him," said Ellen's companion: "he must be quite—"  
  The two ladies passed on; and Richard heard no more.  
  His doubts were, however, cleared up:—Ellen Monroe was a figurante and an actress!  
  He was not so annoyed at this discovery as Ellen had imagined he would have been when she
      took such precautions to conceal the fact from the knowledge of him and her father. Richard
      could not help admiring the independent spirit which had induced her to seek the means of
      earning her own livelihood, and which he now fully comprehended:—at the same time, he was
      sorry that she had withheld the truth, and that she had embraced the stage in preference to
      any other avocation. Alas! he little suspected what scenes that poor girl had passed
      through:—he knew nothing of her connexion with the statuary, the artist, the sculptor, the
      photographer, Greenwood, and the mesmerist!  
  Having satisfied himself that Selina Fitzherbert and Ellen Monroe were one and the same
      person, and still amazed and bewildered by the discovery, Markham returned to the body of the
      theatre; but, instead of proceeding to his former seat, he repaired to the "author's box,"
      which he found unoccupied, and which, being close to the stage, commanded a full view of the
      scene.  
  The tragedy proceeded with unabated success: the performance of Ellen was alone sufficient
      to give it an extraordinary   éclat  . Her beautiful countenance—the noble and dignified
      manner in which she carried her classic head—her elegant form—the natural grace and suavity of
      her manners—her musical voice—and the correct appreciation she evinced of the character in
      which she appeared,—these were the elements of an irresistible appeal to the public heart. The
      tragedy would have been eminently successful by reason of its own intrinsic merits, and
         without   Ellen:—but   with   her, that success was
      brilliant—triumphant—unparalleled in the annals of the modern stage!  
  The entire audience was enraptured with the charming woman who shone in two ways so
      essentially distinct,—who had first captivated the sense as a dancer, and who now came forth a
      great tragic actress. Her lovely person and her talents united, formed a passport to favour
      which not a dissentient voice could question;—and when the curtain fell at the close of the
      fifth act, the approbation of the spectators was expressed with clapping of hands, waving of
      handkerchiefs, and shouts of applause—all prolonged to an unusual length of time, and
      frequently renewed with additional enthusiasm.  
  The moment the curtain fell Markham hastened behind the scenes, and encountered Ellen in one
      of the slips.  
  Hastily grasping her by the hand, he said in a low but hurried tone "Do not be alarmed—I
      know all—I am here to thank you—not to blame you."  
  "Thank   me   state of alarm into which the sudden apparition of Markham had thrown her: "why
      should you thank   me  ?"  
  "Thank you, Ellen—Oh! how can I do otherwise than thank you?" said Markham. "You have
      carried my tragedy through the ordeal—"  
  "  Your   tragedy, Richard?" cried Miss Monroe more and more bewildered.  
  "Yes,   my   tragedy, Ellen—it is mine! But, ah! there is a call for you—"  
  A moment's silence had succeeded the flattering expression of public opinion which arose at
      the termination of the performance; and then arose a loud cry for Selina Fitzherbert.  
  This was followed by a call for the author, and then a thousand voices ejaculated—"Selina
      Fitzherbert and the Author! Let them come together!"  
  The manager now hastened up to the place where Ellen and Richard were standing, and where
      the above hurried words had been exchanged between them.  
  "You must go forward, Miss Fitzherbert—and you too, Mr. Preston—"  
  Ellen glanced with an arch smile towards Richard, as much as to say, "  You   also have
      taken an assumed name."  
  Markham begged and implored the manager not to force him upon the stage;—but the call for
      "Selina Fitzherbert and the Author" was peremptory; and the "gods" were growing clamorous.  
  Popular will is never more arbitrary than in a theatre.  
  Markham accordingly took Ellen's hand:—the curtain rose, and he led her forward.  
  The appearance of that handsome couple—a fine dark-eyed and genteel young man leading by the
      hand a lovely woman,—a successful author, and a favourite actress,—this was the signal for a
      fresh burst of applause.  
  Richard was dazzled with the glare of light, and for some time could see nothing
      distinctly.  
  Myriads of human countenances, heaped together, danced before him; and yet the aspect and
      features of none were accurately delineated to his eyes. He could not have selected from
      amongst those countenances, even that of his long-lost brother, or that of his dearly beloved
      Isabella, had they been both or either of them prominent in that multitude of faces.  
  And Isabella   was   there, with her parents—impelled by the curiosity which had taken
      so many thither that evening.  
  Her surprise, and that of her father and mother, may therefore well be conceived, when, in
      the author of one of the most successful and beautiful dramatic compositions of modern times,
      they recognised Richard Markham!  
  The applause continued for three or four minutes—uninterrupted and enthusiastic—as if some
      mighty conqueror, who had just released his country from the thraldom of a foreign foe, was
      the object of adulation.  
  At length this expression of approbation ceased; and the spectators awaited in suspense, and
      with curiosity depicted upon their countenances, the acknowledgment of the honours showered
      upon the author.  
  At that moment the manager stepped forward, and said, "Ladies and gentlemen, I have the
      honour to inform you that Mr. Edward Preston is the author of the successful tragedy upon
      which you have been pleased to bestow your approval. I consider it to be my duty to mention a
      name which the author's own modesty—a modesty which you will agree with me in pronouncing to
      be unnecessary under such circumstances—would not probably have allowed him to reveal to
      you."  
  The manager bowed and retired.  
  Fresh applause welcomed the announcement of the tragic author's name; and a thousand voices
      exclaimed, "Bravo, Edward Preston!"  
  By this time Markham had recovered his presence of mind and self-possession: and his joy was
      extreme when he suddenly recognised Isabella in a box close by the stage.  
  Oh! that was a glorious moment for him:   she   was there—  she   beheld his
      triumph—and doubtless   she   participated in his own happy feelings.  
  "Bravo, Edward Preston!" was re-echoed through the house.  
  And then a dead silence prevailed.  
  All were anxious to hear Richard speak.  
  But just at the moment when he was about to acknowledge the honours conferred upon him and
      his fair companion by the audience, a strange voice broke upon the stillness of the scene.  
  "It is false! his name is not Preston——"  
  "Silence!" cried numerous voices.  
  "His name is——"  
  "Turn out that brawler! turn him out!"  
  "His name is——"  
  "Hold your tongue!"  
  "Silence!"  
  "Turn him out! turn him out!"  
  "His name is Richard Markham—the Forger!"  
  A burst of indignation, mingled with strong expressions of incredulity, rose against the
      individual, who, from an obscure nook in the gallery, had interrupted the harmony of the
      evening.  
  "It is true—I say! he is Richard Markham who was condemned to two years' imprisonment for
      forgery!" thundered forth the hoarse and unpleasant voice.  
  A piercing scream—the scream of a female tone—echoed through the house: all eyes were turned
      towards the box whence it issued; and a young lady, with flaxen hair and pale complexion, was
      seen to sink senseless in the arms of the elderly gentleman who accompanied her.  
  And in another part of the house a young lady also sank, pale, trembling, and overcome with
      feelings of acute anguish, upon her father's bosom.  
  So deeply did that dread accusing voice affect the sensitive and astonished Mary-Anne, and
      the faithful Isabella!  
  All was now confusion. The audience rose from their seats in all directions; and the theatre
      suddenly appeared to be converted into a modern Babel.  
  Overwhelmed with shame, and so bewildered by this cruel blow, that he knew not how to act,
      Markham stood for some moments like a criminal before his judges. Ellen, forgetting where she
      was, clung to him for support.  
  At length, the unhappy young man seized Ellen abruptly by the hand, and led her from the
      public gaze.  
  The curtain fell as they passed behind the scenes.  
   in the boxes expressed their determination never to support a man, in a public
      institution and in a public capacity, who had been condemned to infamous penalties for an
      enormous crime.  
  Thus all was noise, confusion, and uproar,—argument, accusation, and recrimination,—the
      buzzing of hundreds of tongues,—the clamour of thousands of voices.  
  Some called "Shame!" upon the manager for introducing a discharged convict to the notice of
      Englishmen's wives and daughters,—although the persons who thus clamoured did not utter a
      reproach against the immoral females who made no secret of their profligacy, and who appeared
      nightly upon the stage as its brightest ornaments—nor did they condescend to recall to mind
      the vicinity of that infamous saloon which vomited forth numbers of impure characters to
      occupy seats by the sides of those wives and daughters, whose purity was now supposed to be
      tainted because a man who had undergone an infamous punishment, but who could   there  
      set no bad example, had contributed to their entertainment!  
  And then commenced a riot in the theatre. The respectable portion of the audience escaped
      from the scene with the utmost precipitation:—but the occupants of the upper region, and some
      of the tenants of the pit, remained to exhibit their inclination for what they were pleased to
      term "a lark." The benches were torn up, and hurled upon the stage:—hats and orange-peel flew
      about in all directions;—and serious damage would have been done to the theatre, had not a
      body of police succeeded in restoring order.  
  In the mean time Markham and Ellen had been conducted to the Green Room, where a glass of
      wine was administered to each to restore their self-possession.  
  The manager was alone with them; and when Richard had time to collect his scattered ideas,
      he seemed to awake as from a horrible dream. But the ominous countenance of the manager met
      his glance;—and he knew that it was all a fearful reality.  
  Then did Markham bury his face in his hands, and weep bitterly—bitterly.  
  "Alas! young man," said the manager, "it was an evil day for both you and me, when you
      sought and I accorded my patronage. This business will no doubt injure me seriously. You are a
      young man of extraordinary talent;—but it will not avail you in this sphere again. You have
      enjoyed one signal triumph—you have experienced a most heart-rending overthrow. Never did
      defeat follow upon conquest so rapidly. The power of your genius will not vanquish the opinion
      of the public. I do not blame you: you were not compelled to communicate your former history
      to me;—and it was I who forced you to go forward."  
  Markham was consoled by the language of the manager, who spoke in a kind and sympathising
      tone of voice.  
  Thus the only man who would suffer in a pecuniary point of view—or, at least, he who would
      suffer most—by the fatal occurrence of that evening, was also the only one who attempted to
      solace the unhappy Markham.  
  As for poor Ellen—she was overwhelmed with grief.  
  "You gave me fifty guineas for that fatal—fatal drama," said Richard, after a long pause.
      "The money shall be returned to you to-morrow."  
  "No, my young friend,—that must not be done!" exclaimed the manager, taking Richard's hand.
      "Your noble conduct in this respect raises you fifty per cent, in my opinion."  
  "Yes—he is noble, he is generous!" cried Ellen. "He has been a benefactor to myself and my
      father: it is at his house that we live; and never until this evening were we aware of each
      other's avocations, in respect to the stage."  
  "How singular a coincidence!" exclaimed the manager. "But I hope that I shall not lose the
      services of the principal attraction of my company?"  
  "Yes," said Ellen firmly: "I shall never more appear in public in that capacity of which I
      was lately so enamoured, but for which I have suddenly entertained an abhorrence."  
  "A few days' repose and rest will induce you to change your mind, I hope?" said the manager,
      who was really alarmed at the prospect of losing a figurante of such talent and an actress of
      such great promise.  
  "We shall see—I will reflect," returned Ellen, unwilling to add to the annoyances of the
      kind-hearted manager.  
  "You must not desert me," said this gentleman, "especially at a time when I shall require
      all the attractions possible to restore the reputation of my house."  
  Markham now rose to take his departure.  
  "I should not advise you to leave the house together," said the manager. "There may be a few
      mal-contents in the street;—and, at all events, it will be as well that the ladies and
      gentlemen of my company should not know of your intimate acquaintance with each other. Such a
      proceeding might only compromise Miss Fitzherbert."  
  Markham cordially acceded to this suggestion; and it was agreed that he should depart by the
      private door, and that Ellen should return home in the usual manner by herself.  
  But before they separated, the two young people agreed with each other that the strictest
      silence should be preserved at the Place, not only with respect to the events of that evening,
      but also in regard to the nature of the avocations in which they had both lately been
      engaged.  
  Markham succeeded in escaping unobserved from the theatre;—and, humiliated, cast down,
      heartbroken,—bending beneath an insupportable burden of ignominy and shame,—with the fainting
      form of Isabella before his eyes, and the piercing shriek of Mary-Anne, whom he had also
      recognised, in his ears,—he pursued his precipitate retreat homewards.  
  But what a dread revelation had been made to him that evening! His mortal enemy—his
      inveterate foe had escaped from the death which, it was hitherto supposed, the miscreant had
      met in the den of infamy near Bird-Cage Walk some months previously:—his ominous voice still
      thundered in Markham's ears;—and our unhappy hero once more saw all his prospects ruined by
      the unmitigated hatred of the Resurrection Man.  
  
  CHAPTER XCII. THE ITALIAN VALET.  
  ELLEN retired to her private dressing-room, and hastily threw aside her theatrical garb.  
    
  As she left the private door of the theatre, she saw several persons loitering
      about—probably in hopes of catching a glimpse of the author who had been so signally disgraced
      that evening, and whose previous departure from the house was unperceived.  
  She drew her veil closely over her countenance; but not before one fellow, more impudent
      than the rest, and whose cadaverous countenance, shaggy eye-brows, and sinister expression,
      struck a momentary terror into her soul, had peered beneath her bonnet.  
  Fortunately, as Ellen considered it, a cab was close by; and the driver was standing on the
      pavement with his hand grasping the door-latch, as if he were expecting some one.  
  "Cab, ma'am?" said he, as Ellen approached.  
  Ellen answered in the affirmative, mentioned her address, and stepped into the vehicle.  
  The driver banged the door, and mounted his box.  
  The man with the cadaverous countenance watched Ellen into the vehicle, and exchanged a sign
      of intelligence with the driver.  
  The cab then drove rapidly away.  
  Another cab was standing at a little distance; and into this the man with the cadaverous
      countenance stepped. There was already an individual in it, who, when the former opened the
      door, said, "All right?"  
  "All right," was the reply.  
  This second cab, containing these two individuals, then followed rapidly in the traces of
      the first.  
  Meantime Ellen had thrown herself back in the vehicle, and had given way to her
      reflections.  
  The events of that memorable evening occupied her attention. A coincidence, of a nature
      fitted only for the pages of a romance, had revealed to Markham and herself the history of
      each other's pursuits. While she had been following the occupation of a figurante, he was
      devoting his time to dramatic composition. He had retained his employment a secret: she had
      dissembled hers. He had accidentally applied for the patronage of the same manager who had
      taken her by the hand. He had assumed a false name: so had she. Chance led her to take a part
      in his drama;—her talent had materially contributed to its success. A triumph was achieved by
      each;—and then came the overwhelming, crushing denunciation which turned his joy to
      mourning—his honour to disgrace—his glory to shame. She felt as if she were identified with
      his fate in this one respect:—he was her benefactor; she esteemed him: and she seemed to
      partake in his most painful emotions as she pondered upon the incidents of that evening.  
  And then she retrospected over the recent events which had chequered her own life. The cast
      of her countenance embellished statues;—her likeness lent its attraction to pictures;—her bust
      was preserved in marble;—her entire form feasted the eyes of many a libertine in the private
      room of the photographic department of a gallery of science;—her virtue had become the prey of
      one who gave her a few pieces of paltry gold in exchange for the inestimable jewel of her
      purity;—her dreams had been sold to a mesmerist;—her dancing had captivated thousands;—her
      tragic talent had crowned the success of a drama. What remained for her now to sell? what
      talent did she possess which could now be turned to advantage? Alas! she knew not!  
  Her meditations were painful; and some time elapsed ere she awoke from her reverie.  
  At length she glanced towards the window: the night was beautifully clear, though piercing
      cold—for it was now the month of December; and the year 1839 was drawing to a close.  
  The vehicle was proceeding along a road skirted only by a few leafless trees, and wearing an
      aspect strange and new to her.  
  The country beyond, on either side, seemed to present to her view different outlines from
      those which frequent passage along the road leading to Markham Place had rendered familiar to
      her eyes. Again she gazed wistfully forth:—she lowered the window, and surveyed the adjacent
      scenery with redoubled interest.  
  And now she felt really alarmed; for she was convinced that the driver had mistaken the
      road.  
  She called to him, and expressed her fears.  
  "No—no, ma'am," he exclaimed, without relaxing the speed at which the vehicle was
      proceeding; "there's more ways than one of reaching the place where you live. Don't be afraid,
      ma'am—it's all right."  
  Ellen's fears were hushed for a short time; but as she leant partially out of the window to
      survey the country through which she was passing, the sounds of another vehicle behind her own
      fell upon her ears.  
  At any other time this circumstance would not have produced a second thought; but on this
      occasion Ellen felt a presentiment of evil. Whether the mournful catastrophe of the evening,
      or her recent sad reflections,—or both united, had produced this morbid feeling, we cannot
      say. Sufficient is it for us to know that such was the state of her mind; and then she
      remembered the warning contained in the letter so mysteriously sent to her a short time
      previously at the theatre.  
  Again she addressed the cabman; but this time he made no answer; and in a few minutes he
      drove up to the door of a small house which stood alone by the side of that dreary road.  
  Scarcely had he alighted from his box, when the second cab came up and stopped also.  
  "Where am I?" demanded Ellen, now seriously alarmed.  
  An individual, who had alighted from the second cab, hastened to open the door of the first,
      and assist Ellen to alight.  
  "You must get down here, Miss," he said, in a dialect and tone which denoted him to be a
      foreigner.  
  Ellen saw at a glance that he was a tall elderly man, with a dark olive complexion, piercing
      black eyes, but by no means an unpleasant expression of countenance. He was dressed in black,
      and wore a large cloak hanging loosely over his shoulders.  
  "Get down here!" repeated Ellen. "And why? where am I? who are you? Speak."  
  "No harm will happen to you, Miss," replied the tall stranger. "A gentleman is waiting in
      this house to see you."  
  "A gentleman!" cried Ellen. "Ah! can it be Mr. Greenwood?"  
  "It is, Miss: you need fear nothing."  
  Ellen was naturally of a courageous disposition; and the circumstances of her life had
      tended to strengthen her mind. It instantly struck her that she was in the power of her
      persecutor's myrmidons, and that resistance against them was calculated to produce effects
      much less beneficial for her than those which remonstrance and firmness might lead to with
      their employer.  
  She accordingly accompanied the tall stranger into the house.  
   and who had originally introduced her to the embraces of Mr. Greenwood!  
  The horrible wrinkled wretch grinned significantly, at she conducted Ellen into a parlour
      very neatly furnished, and where a cheerful fire was burning in the grate.  
  Meantime the tall stranger issued forth again, and ordered the driver of the cab in which
      Ellen had arrived to await further instructions. He then accosted the cadaverous looking man
      who had accompanied him in the second cab, and who was now loitering about in front of the
      house.  
  "Tidkins," said he, "we do not require your services any further. The young lady made no
      resistance, and consequently there has been no need for the exercise of your strong arm. Here
      is your reward. You can return to London in the same cab that brought you hither."  
  "Thank you, my friend," exclaimed the Resurrection Man. "Your master knows my address, the
      next time he requires my services. Good night."  
  "Good night," said the tall man: and when he had seen the second cab depart, he re-entered
      the house.  
  In the hall he met Mr. Greenwood.  
  "Well, Filippo—all right, eh?" said this gentleman, in a whisper.  
  "All right, sir. We managed it without violence; and the lady is in your power."  
  "Ah! I thought you would do the business genteelly for me. Lafleur is a faithful fellow, and
      would do any thing to serve me; but he is clumsy and awkward in an intrigue of this kind. No
      one can manage these little matters so well as a foreigner. A Frenchman is clever—but an
      Italian incomparable."  
  "Thank you, sir, for the compliment," said Filippo, with a low bow.  
  "Oh! it is no compliment," returned Greenwood. "Three or four little things that I have
      entrusted to you since you have been in my service, were all admirably managed so far as you
      were concerned; and though they every one failed afterwards, yet it was no fault of yours. I
      am well aware of that."  
  The Italian bowed.  
  "And now I must present myself to this haughty beauty," said Greenwood.  
  "Am I to dismiss the vehicle which brought her hither, sir?" demanded Filippo.  
  "Yes: you will stay here to-night."  
  The Italian valet bowed once more, and returned to the driver of the vehicle that brought
      Ellen thither.  
  "My good fellow," said Filippo, in a hurried tone, "here is your money for the service
      rendered up to this moment. Are you now disposed to earn five guineas in addition?"  
  "Certainly, sir," replied the man.  
  "Then drive to the bend in the road yonder," continued Filippo. "There you will find a large
      barn, belonging to my master's property here. You can house your horse and cab comfortably
      there. But do not unharness the animal. There is a pond close by; and you will find a bucket
      in the barn. There is also hay for your horse. Wait there patiently till I come to you."  
  The cabman signified acquiescence; and Filippo returned to the house.  
  Meantime the old hag, as before stated, had conducted Ellen to a parlour, where the young
      lady threw herself upon a sofa, her mind and body being alike fatigued with the events and
      anxieties of the evening.  
  "We meet again, Miss," said the old woman, lingering near the table, on which refreshments
      of several luxurious kinds were placed. "You came no more to visit me in the court; and yet I
      watched from a distance the brilliancy of your career. Ah! what fine things—what fine things I
      have introduced you to, since first I knew you."  
  "If you wish to serve me," said Ellen, "help me away from this place, and I will recompense
      you largely."  
  "For every guinea that you would give me to let you go, I shall receive two for keeping you
      in safe custody," returned the hag.  
  "Name the price that you are to have from your employer," cried Ellen; "and I will double
      it."  
  "That you cannot do. Miss. Besides, have I not your interests to consider? Do I not know
      what is good for you? I tell you that you may become a great lady—ride in a magnificent
      carriage—have fine clothes and sparkling jewels—and never know again what toil is. I should
      not be so squeamish if I were you."  
  "Silence, wretch!" cried Ellen, exasperated more at the cool language of calculation in
      which the old woman spoke, than with the prospects she held out and the arguments she
      used.  
  "Ah! Miss," resumed the hag, nothing discomfited, "I am not annoyed with you, for the harsh
      way in which you speak to me. I have seen too much of your stubborn beauties in my life to be
      abashed with a word. Lack-a-day! they all yield in time—they all yield in time!"  
  And the old hag shook her head seriously, as if she had arrived at some great moral
      conclusion.  
  Ellen paid no attention to her.  
  "Ah! Miss," continued the hag, "I was once young like you—and as beautiful too, wrinkled and
      tanned as I now appear. But I was not such a fool to my own interests as you. I lived
      luxuriously for many, many years—God knows how many—I can't count them now—I don't like to
      think of those happy times. I ought to have saved money—much money; but I frittered it all
      away as quick as I got it. Now, do you take my advice: accept Mr. Greenwood's offers;—he is a
      handsome man, and pays like a prince."  
  The argument of the old hag was cut short by the entrance of the individual of whom she was
      just speaking.  
  She left the room; and Ellen was now alone with Greenwood.  
  "Sir, are you the author of this cowardly outrage which has been perpetrated upon me?"
      demanded Ellen, rising from the sofa, and speaking in a firm but cold tone.  
  "Call it not an outrage, dearest Ellen—"  
  "It is nothing else, sir; and if you have one spark of honour left—one feeling of respect
      for the mother of your child," added Miss Monroe, sinking her voice, "you will allow me to
      depart without delay. On that condition I will forget all that has transpired this
      evening."  
  "My dear girl, you cannot think that I have taken all this trouble to be thwarted by a
      trifling obstacle at the end, or that I have merely had you brought hither to have the
      pleasure of letting you depart again after one minute's conversation. No, Ellen: listen to me!
      I have conceived a deep—profound—a fervent affection for you——"  
   sophistry cannot deceive me as it has done so many—many others."  
  "Then in plain terms, Ellen, you shall be mine—wholly and solely mine—and I will remain
      faithful to you until death."  
  "I will become your wife, for the sake of my child: on no other terms will I consort with
      you. As surely as you attempt to force me to compliance with your will, so certainly will I
      unmask you sooner or later. I will expose you—I will tell the world who you are—I will
      proclaim how you obtained your fortune by the plunder of your own—"  
  "Silence, Ellen!" thundered Greenwood, his face becoming purple with indignation. "Remember
      that the least word calculated to betray my secret, would lead to a revelation of yours; and
      the result would be the execrations of your father showered down upon your devoted head."  
  "I care not for that catastrophe—I care not for mine own past dishonour—I care not for the
      existence of that child of whom you are the father," exclaimed Ellen in a rapid and
      impassioned tone. "I will not be immolated to your desires—I will not succumb to your wishes,
      without revenge! Oh! full well do I comprehend you—full well do I know how you calculated when
      you resolved to perpetrate this outrage. You thought that I must suffer every thing at your
      hands, and not dare proclaim my wrongs:—you fancied that my lips are sealed against all and
      every thing connected with   you  ! Mark me, you have reckoned erroneously upon the
      extent of my dread of my father and my benefactor! There is one thing that will make me fall
      at their feet and reveal—all and that is the consummation on your part of this vile outrage
      upon me!"  
  "Be it so, Ellen," said Greenwood. "I am as determined as you. I will use no force against
      you; but I will keep you a prisoner here; and believe me—for I know the world well—your stern
      resolves will soon melt in the presence of solitude and monotony. You will then solicit me to
      come to you—if it be only to bear you company! Escape is impossible—my spies are around the
      house. Day and night will you be watched as if you were a criminal. And when you consent to
      become mine, in all save the vain ties which priestcraft has invented, and the shackles of
      which shall never curb my proud spirit,—then will I surround you with every luxury, gratify
      your slightest wishes, study your pleasures unceasingly, and do all to make you cling to me
      more fervently than if I were your husband according to monkish ceremony. This is my resolve.
      In the mean time, if you choose to console your father for your absence, write a note telling
      him that you are happy, but that circumstances at present compel you to withhold from him the
      place of your residence; and that letter shall be delivered to-morrow morning at Markham
      Place. I now leave you. This is your sitting-room; your sleeping apartment is above. The
      servant—the old woman whom you know so well," added Greenwood, in a tone slightly ironical,
      "will attend upon you. The house contains every luxury that may gratify the appetite; all your
      wishes shall be complied with. But, again I say, think not of escape; that is impossible. And
      if you feel inclined to write the note of which I have spoken, do so, and give it to your
      attendant. It is now late—the clock has struck one: I leave you to yourself."  
  Ellen made no reply; and Greenwood left the room.  
  The moment she was alone, Ellen rose and hastened to the window. She drew aside the curtain,
      and was somewhat surprised to perceive that the casements were not barred; for she had
      expected to find every precaution against escape adopted after the confident manner in which
      Greenwood had spoken upon that head. But her heart sank within her; for she remembered his
      assurance that the house was surrounded by spies. She therefore made up her mind, after some
      reflection, to remain quiet until the next day, and then regulate her endeavours to escape by
      the aspect of the house and its locality when seen by day-light.  
  She felt exhausted and wearied, and partook of a light refreshment. She then took a candle
      from the table, and proceeded up-stairs to the bed-room prepared for her. Having carefully
      bolted the door, she sate down to reflect upon the propriety of writing to her father the note
      suggested by Greenwood. She felt most acutely on the old man's account; and she knew that she
      would not be permitted to communicate with him in terms more explicit than those mentioned by
      her persecutor. Such terms were too vague and equivocal to be satisfactory;—and she concluded
      in her own mind that silence was the better alternative of the two.  
  Having once more satisfied herself that the room was safe against all chances of intrusion,
      she thought of retiring to rest. She laid aside her bonnet and shawl, which she had hitherto
      kept on, and then took off her gown. She approached a long Psyche, or full-length mirror, that
      stood near the dressing-table (for the room was elegantly furnished), and for a moment
      contemplated herself with feelings of pride and pleasure—in spite of the vexatious position in
      which she found herself. But vanity was now an essential ingredient of her character. It had
      been engendered, nurtured, and matured by the mode of life she had been compelled to
      adopt.  
  And, assuredly, hers were charms of which she had full right to be proud. The mirror
      reflected to her eyes a countenance that had been deemed worthy to embellish a Venus on the
      canvass of a great painter. In that same faithful glass was also seen a form the beautiful
      undulations and rich contours of which were perfectly symmetrical, and yet voluptuously
      matured. The delicate white corset yielded with docile elasticity to the shape which no
      invention of art could improve. The form reduced that corset to suit its own proportions; and
      in no way did the corset shape the form. Those swelling globes of snow, each adorned as with a
      delicate rose-bud, needed no support to maintain them in their full and natural rotundity;—the
      curvatures which formed the waist, were not drawn nearer to each other by the compression of
      the stay;—the graceful swell of the hips required no art to improve or augment its
      copiousness. Ellen smiled—in spite of herself,—smiled complacently—smiled almost proudly, as
      she surveyed her perfect form in that mirror.  
  But, hark! what sound is that which suddenly falls upon her ear?  
  She starts—looks round—and listens.  
  Again!—that sound is repeated.  
  This time she comprehends its source: some one is tapping gently at the side window of the
      room.  
  Ellen hastily put on her gown once more, and advanced to the casement.  
  She raised the blind, and beheld the dark form of a man mounted upon a ladder, at the
      window. A second glance convinced her that he was the tall Italian whom she had before
      seen.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I am come to save you," answered Filippo, in a voice so low, that his words were scarcely
      intelligible. "Do not be afraid—I am he who wrote the warning letter, which——"  
  Without a moment's farther hesitation, Ellen gently raised the window.  
  "I am he who wrote the warning letter which you received at the theatre," repeated Filippo.
      "Although ostensibly compelled to serve my master, yet privately I counteract all his vile
      schemes to the utmost of my power."  
  "I believe you—I trust you," said Ellen, overjoyed at the arrival of this unlooked-for
      succour. "What would you have me do?"  
  "Tie the sheets of the bed together—fasten one end to the bed-post, and throw the other
      outside," returned Filippo, speaking in a rapid whisper.  
  In less than a minute this was done; and Ellen once more assumed her bonnet and shawl.  
  By the directions of Filippo she then stepped upon the window-sill: he received her in his
      arms, and bore her in safety to the ground.  
  Then, taking the ladder on his shoulders, he desired her to follow him without speaking a
      word.  
  They passed behind the house, and stopped for a moment at a stable where Filippo deposited
      the ladder. He then led the way across a field adjoining the garden that belonged to the
      house.  
  "Lady," said the Italian, when they were at some distance from the dwelling, "if you
      consider that you owe me any gratitude for the service I am now rendering you, all the
      recompense I require is strict silence on your part with respect to the real mode of your
      escape."  
  "Rest well assured that I shall never betray you," answered Ellen. "But how is it that so
      bad a man as your master can possess so honest and generous a follower as you?"  
   you as implicitly sacred. Any revelation—the slightest hint, on your part, would
      frustrate the generous purposes of my mistress. And think not, lady, that I am merely acting
      the part of a base spy:—I mean Mr. Greenwood no harm—I shall do him none: all I aim at is the
      prevention of harm springing from his machinations in regard to others. But we are now at the
      spot where a vehicle waits to convey you back to London."  
  Filippo opened the door of a barn, which they had just reached; and the cabman responded to
      his summons.  
  In a few minutes the vehicle was ready to depart. Ellen offered the Italian a recompense for
      his goodness towards her; but he drew himself up haughtily, and said, "Keep your gold, lady: I
      require no other reward than   silence   on your part."  
  He then handed Miss Monroe into the vehicle; and ordered the driver to conduct the lady
      whithersoever she commanded him.  
  Ellen desired to be taken home to Markham Place; the Italian raised his hat respectfully;
      and the cab drove rapidly away towards London.  
  Miss Monroe now began to reflect profoundly upon the nature of the excuse which she should
      offer to her father and Richard Markham, to account for her prolonged absence. We have before
      said that she had ceased to shrink from a falsehood; and she had certain cogent reasons for
      never associating her own name with that of Greenwood;—much less would she acquaint her father
      or Richard with an outrage which would only induce them to adopt means to punish its
      perpetrator, and thus bring them in collision with him.  
  At length she resolved upon stating that she had been taken ill at a concert where she had
      been engaged for the evening: this course would be comprehended by Markham, who would only
      have to substitute the word "theatre" for "concert" in his own imagination; and it would also
      satisfy her father.  
  We need merely add to this episode in our eventful history, that Ellen reached home safely
      at four o'clock in the morning, and that the excuse was satisfactory to both Markham and her
      father, who were anxiously awaiting her return.  
  
  CHAPTER XCIII. NEWS FROM CASTELCICALA.  
  RETURN we once more to Diana Arlington, who still occupied the splendid mansion in Dover
      Street, which had been fitted up for her by the Earl of Warrington.  
  The routine of the life of the Enchantress continued the same as we have described it in
      Chapter LI.  
  The Earl of Warrington was unremitting in his attention, and unchanged in his liberality
      towards his beautiful mistress; and, on her part, Diana was the faithful friend and true
      companion who by her correct conduct maintained the confidence which she had inspired in the
      heart of her noble protector.  
  We must again introduce our readers to the Enchantress at the hour of breakfast, and in the
      little parlour where we have before seen her.  
  But on this occasion, instead of being occupied with the perusal of the   Morning
       Herald  , her entire attention was absorbed in the contents of a letter, which ran as
      follows:—  
  
  "  Montoni  ,   December 3, 1839  .  
  "I sit down, my dearest Diana, to inform you that the ceremony of my union with his Serene
       Highness Angelo III. was solemnized yesterday.  
  "You are aware that this ceremony was to have taken place some months ago; but the
       intrigues of certain persons holding high and influential offices in the state, delayed it.
       Calumny after calumny against me was whispered in the ears of the Grand Duke; and, although
       his Highness believed not a word of those evil reports, I steadily refused to accept the
       honour he was anxious to confer upon me, until he had satisfied himself of the falsity of
       each successive calumny. At length I implored his Highness to address an autograph letter to
       the Earl of Warrington, with whom his Highness was acquainted during the residence of that
       good English nobleman in Castelcicala. His Highness complied with my request, and despatched
       his letter so privately that none of those who surround him suspected his proceeding. The
       Earl of Warrington, as you know, dearest Diana, hastened to reply. His answer was so
       satisfactory, so frank, so generous, so candid, that the Duke declared he would visit with
       his severest displeasure any one who dared breathe a word of calumny against me or my friends
       in England, in future.  
  "The next step adopted by his Serene Highness was to dismiss the Marquis of Gerrano from
       the office of Minister of Foreign Affairs. Baron Ruperto, the Under Secretary in that
       Department, retired with his superior. The Duke adopted this measure in consequence of the
       intrigues of those noblemen to thwart his Highness's intentions of raising to the ducal
       throne the woman whom he loved. You may suppose how grieved—how vexed—how distressed I have
       been through the conviction that I myself was the cause of these heart-burnings, jealousies,
       and intrigues; and although I was innocently the source of such disagreeable proceedings, my
       sorrow and annoyance were but little mitigated by this impression. I implored the Grand Duke
       to allow me to leave the country, and retire to Switzerland; but his Serene Highness remained
       firm, and assured me that, although he had many difficulties to overcome, he was not
       disheartened. Then he declared that his entire happiness was centred in me; and he thus
       over-ruled my scruples.  
  "At length the duke remodelled his cabinet (a fact to which I alluded above) by appointing
       the Count of Friuli (who is deeply attached to His Highness, and favourable to our union) to
       the Foreign Office, in place of the Marquis of Gerrano. Signor Pisani, another faithful
       dependant of His Highness, was appointed Under-Secretary in the place of Baron Ruperto. The
       Minister of War also retired, and was succeeded by General Grachia. When these changes were
       effected, his Serene Highness communicated to the council of ministers his intention to
          unite himself to Eliza Marchioness of Ziani on the 2d of December of the present
        year  .  
  "This decision was made known on the 19th of last month. I did not write to communicate the
       important fact to you, because I was apprehensive of new delays; and as I had already misled
       you once (though unintentionally on my part) I was unwilling to deceive either you or myself
       a second time. I know your friendship for me, Diana,—I know that you entertain a sister's
       love for me, the same that I feel for you,—and I also know that you anxiously watch the
       progress of my fortunes, as, under similar circumstances, I should yours. I therefore
       resolved to acquaint you with no more of my hopes, until they should have been realised. That
       result has now been attained; and I need preserve a cold silence no longer.  
  "In the evening of the 19th of November, the Grand Chancellor of Castelcicala, the
       President of the Council (the Marquis of Vincenza), and the Archbishop of Montoni, visited me
       at the villa to acquaint me with the royal decision. I endeavoured—and I hope succeeded—to
       convince their lordships of the profound sense which I entertained of the high honour
       intended to be conferred upon me, and my conviction that no merit which I possessed could
       render me worthy of such distinction; at the same time I declared my readiness to accept that
       honour, since it was the will and pleasure of a sovereign Prince to bestow it upon me.  
  "I can scarcely tell you the nature of the varied emotions and feelings which filled—indeed
       agitated—my bosom when the memorable morning dawned. That was yesterday! I awoke at an
       early—a very early hour,—before six, and walked in the garden with the hope that the fresh
       air and the charming tranquillity of the scene would compose me. I could scarcely believe
       that I was on the point of entering upon such high destinies; that a diadem was so soon to
       encircle my brow; that the thrilling words   Highness   and   Princess  —command the allegiance of millions of human beings,—and share the fortunes of a
       potentate of Europe! Was it possible that I—I who was the daughter of a poor farmer, and who
       had seen so much of the vicissitudes of life,—I who had thought myself happy with the
       competence which I enjoyed through the Earl of Warrington's bounty at Clapton,—I who
       conceived myself to be one of the most fortunate of individuals when, by the goodness of that
       same excellent peer, I arrived in this State, and took possession of the villa which he had
       placed at my disposal,—I who had then no more elevated aspirations than to dwell in
       tranquillity and peace—no loftier hope than to deserve that kind nobleman's benefits by my
       conduct,—was it possible that I was in a few hours to become the Grand Duchess of
       Castelcicala? I could not fix my mind to such a belief; the idea seemed an oriental fiction—a
       romantic dream. And yet, I remembered, I had already received an earnest of this splendid
       promise of fortune: I had already been elevated from a lowly condition to an exalted rank;
       the distinction of a Marchioness was mine; for months had I been accustomed to the sounding
       title of   Your Ladyship   and for months had I been enrolled amongst the peeresses of
       Castelcicala. Yes—I thought: it was true,—true that a Prince—a powerful Prince—intended to
       raise me to a seat upon his own ducal throne!  
  "At seven precisely the three lovely daughters of General Grachia arrived at the villa to
       assist me in my toilette—my nuptial toilette. They informed me that, if it were my pleasure,
       they were to remain in attendance upon me after my marriage. I embraced them tenderly, and
       assured them that they should always be near me as friends. When the toilette was completed,
       I bade adieu to the villa. I wept—wept tears of mingled joy and sorrow as I said farewell to
       that abode when I had passed so many happy, happy hours! At length I entered General
       Grachia's carriage, which was waiting; and, accompanied by my three amiable friends, repaired
       to their father's private dwelling (not his official palace of the War Department) in
       Montoni.  
  "Here my letter must terminate. Enclosed is an account of the entire ceremony, translated
       into English by my private secretary (who is well acquainted with my native tongue) from the
          Montoni Gazette  . Fain would I have erased those passages which are favourable—too
       favourable to myself; but I fancied that my friend—my sister Diana would be pleased to read
       the narrative in its integrity.  
  "In conclusion, let me say—and do you believe it as devoutly as I say it sincerely—that, in
       spite of my rank and fortunes,—in spite of the splendours that surround me, to you I am in
       heart, and always shall remain, the same attached and grateful being, whom you have known
       as  
    "ELIZA SYDNEY."    
  
  It would be impossible to describe the feelings of delight with which Mrs. Arlington perused
      the latter portion of this letter. Pass we on, therefore, to the Bridal Ceremony, as it was
      described in the translated narrative which accompanied the communication of the Grand
      Duchess:—  
  
  "THE MARRIAGE OF THE GRAND DUKE.  
  "Yesterday morning were celebrated the nuptials of his Serene Highness Angelo III. and
       Eliza Marchioness of Ziani.  
  "From an early hour the capital wore an appearance of unusual gaiety and bustle. The houses
       looking on the Piazzetta of Contarini, leading to the ancient Cathedral of Saint Theodosia,
       were decorated in a most splendid manner with banners, garlands, festoons of flowers, and
       various ornaments and devices appropriate to the occasion. The balconies were fitted up as
       verdant bowers and arbours, and the lovely characteristics of the country were thus
       introduced into the very heart of the city. The Town-Hall was hung with numerous banners; and
       the royal standard waved proudly over the Black Tower of the Citadel. The shops in those
       streets through which the procession was to pass were fitted up with seats which were let to
       those who were willing to pay the high prices demanded for them. In other parts of the city
       the shops and marts of trade were all closed, as was the Exchange. A holiday was observed at
       the Bank of Castelcicala; and the business of the General Post Office closed at eleven
       o'clock in the forenoon. Nor was the port less gay than the city. All the vessels in the
       harbour and docks, as well at those in the roadstead, were decked with innumerable flags. The
       royal standard floated from the main of the ships of war of the Castelcicalan navy. The sight
       was altogether most imposing and lively.  
  "At seven o'clock the bells of Saint Theodosia and all the other churches in Montoni rang
       out merry peals; and the troops of the garrison got under arms. At a quarter before eight the
       Mayor and Corporation of the city, arrayed in their robes of green velvet edged with gold,
       proceeded to the palace and presented an address of congratulation on the auspicious day, to
       his Serene Highness, who was pleased to return a most gracious answer. It being generally
       understood that the Marchioness of Ziani would in the first instance alight at the dwelling
       of General Grachia, the Minister of War, a crowd of highly respectable and well-dressed
       persons had collected in that neighbourhood. At nine o'clock the General's private carriage,
       which had been sent to convey the future Grand Duchess from her own abode to the General's
       mansion, drove rapidly up the street, attended by two outriders. We shall never forget the
       enthusiasm manifested by the assembled multitude upon that occasion. All political feelings
       appeared to be forgotten; and a loud, hearty, and prolonged burst of welcome met the ear. The
       object of this ebullition of generous feeling bowed gracefully to the crowds on either side;
       and the cheering continued for some moments after the carriage had entered the court-yard of
       the General's mansion.  
  "At half-past ten o'clock the President of the Council, the Grand Chancellor, and the
       Intendant of the Ducal Civil List arrived in their carriages at General Grachia's abode,
       preceded by one of the royal equipages, which was sent to convey the bride and her
       ladies-in-waiting to the palace. In a few minutes the President of the Council handed the
       bride, who was attended by the lady and three lovely daughters of General Grachia, into the
       ducal carriage. The procession then repaired to the palace, the crowds that lined the streets
       and occupied the windows and balconies by which it passed, expressing their feelings by
       cheers and the waving of handkerchiefs. To these demonstrations the bride responded by
       graceful bows, bestowed in a manner so modest and yet evidently sincere, that the conduct of
       this exalted lady upon the occasion won all hearts.  
  "The procession entered the palace-square; and the Grand Duke, attended by the great
       officers of state and a brilliant staff, received his intended bride at the foot of the great
       marble staircase of the western pavilion. The illustrious company then entered the palace.
       Immediately afterwards the five regiments of household troops, commanded by that noble
       veteran the Marshal Count of Galeazzo, marched into the square, and formed into three lines
       along the western side of the palace. At half-past eleven the royal party appeared at the
       foot of the marble staircase, and entered the numerous carriages in waiting. The bride
       occupied the carriage which had conveyed her to the palace, and was accompanied by the ladies
       in attendance upon her. His Serene Highness, attended by the President of the Council and the
       Grand Chancellor, entered the state carriage. The procession then moved onwards to the
       Cathedral of Saint Theodosia.  
  "This was the signal for the roar of artillery from all points. The citadel, and the ships
       of war in the roadstead thundered forth the announcement that his Serene Highness had just
       left the palace. The bells rang blithely from every steeple; the troops presented arms, the
       military bands played the national hymn; and the procession was welcomed with joyous shouts,
       the waving of handkerchiefs, and the smiles of beauty. The windows and balconies of the
       houses overlooking the streets through which it passed, were crowded with elegantly dressed
       ladies, brilliant with their own beauty, gay with waving plumes, and sparkling with diamonds.
       The only indication of political feeling which we observed upon the occasion, was on the part
       of the troops;   and they were silent  .  
  "The bride was naturally the centre of all interest and attraction. Every one was anxious
       to catch a glimpse of her charming countenance. And certainly this lovely lady never could
       have appeared   more lovely   than on the present occasion. She was attired in a dress
       of the most costly point-lace over white satin. Her veil was of the first-mentioned material,
       and of the richest description. She was somewhat pale; but a charming serenity was depicted
       upon her countenance. She bowed frequently, and in the most unpretending and affable manner,
       as the procession moved along.  
  "At length the cavalcade reached the cathedral, where the Archbishop of Montoni, assisted
       by the Bishops of Trevisano and Collato, was in attendance to perform the solemn ceremony.
       The sacred edifice was thronged by the   élite   looked remarkably well and cheerful. In a short time the Sovereign conducted
       his lovely bride into that palace which in future is to be her home.  
  "Thus ended a ceremony which, in a political point of view, may probably be attended with
       important results to the interests of Castelcicala. Should male issue proceed from this
       marriage, the contentions of rival parties in the state will be at once annihilated. The
       supporters of the Prince of Castelcicala, who is now an exile in England, are naturally
       indignant and annoyed at the marriage of his Serene Highness Angelo III. with a lady young
       enough to encourage hopes that the union may not remain unfruitful. It is even evident that
       many of the former friends of the exiled Prince pronounced in favour of this marriage, the
       moment it was contemplated some months previously to its solemnization. This sentiment of
       approval will account for the entrance of General Grachia, who was notorious for his adhesion
       to the popular cause espoused by the Prince, into the Ministry. Probably the best friends of
       their country, aware that it was neither natural nor legal to attempt to control the
       inclinations and affections of his Serene Highness Angelo III., looked upon this marriage as
       the best means of securing peace and internal tranquillity to Castelcicala, inasmuch as it
       gives a prospect of an heir to the ducal throne—an heir whose right and title none could
       dispute. This is the view we ourselves take of the case: and we therefore hail the event as
       one of a most auspicious nature in our annals."  
  
  Scarcely had the Enchantress terminated this narrative of the ceremony which elevated her
      friend to a ducal throne,—a narrative which she had perused with the liveliest feelings of
      satisfaction, and the most unadulterated pleasure,—when the Earl of Warrington was
      announced.  
  Diana hastened to communicate to him the tidings which she had received; and the nobleman
      himself read Eliza's letter, and the extract from the   Montoni Gazette  , with an
      interest which showed how gratified he felt in the high and exalted fortunes of the daughter
      of her whom he had once loved so tenderly.  
  "Yes, indeed," said the earl, when he had terminated the perusal of the two documents,
      "Eliza Sydney now ranks amongst the queens and reigning princesses of the world: from a humble
      cottage she has risen to a throne."  
  "And this exalted station she owes to your lordship's goodness," remarked Diana.  
  "Say to my justice," observed the earl; "for I may flatter myself that I have behaved with
      justice to the child of my departed uncle's daughter. And this remarkable exaltation of Eliza
      Sydney shows us, Diana, that we should never judge of a person's character by one fault. Eliza
      has always been imbued with sentiments of virtue and integrity, although she was led into one
      error by that villain Stephens; and she has now met with a reward of a price high almost
      beyond precedent. But, ah!" exclaimed the earl, who was carelessly turning the letter of the
      Grand Duchess over and over in his hands as he spoke, "this is very singular—very
      remarkable;"—and he inspected the seal and post-marks of the letter with minute attention.  
  "What is the matter?" inquired Diana.  
  "Some treachery has been perpetrated here," answered the earl, still continuing his
      scrutiny: "this letter had been opened before it was delivered to you."  
  "Opened!" cried Diana.  
  "Yes," said the Earl of Warrington; "here is every proof that the letter has been violated.
      See—there is the English post-mark of   yesterday morning  : and over it has been stamped
         another mark  , of this morning's date. Then contemplate the seal. There are two kinds
      of wax, the one melted over the other: do you not notice a shade different in their
      colours?"  
  "Certainly," said Diana: "it is apparent. But who could have done this? Perhaps the Grand
      Duchess herself; for the ducal arms are imprinted upon the upper layer of wax."  
  "The persons who opened this letter, Diana," said the earl, in a serious—almost a solemn
      tone, "are those who know full well how to take the imprint of a seal. But have you not other
      letters from Castelcicala?"  
  "Several," replied Diana; and she hastily unlocked her writing-desk, where she produced all
      the correspondence she had received from Eliza Sydney.  
  The earl carefully inspected the envelopes of those letters; and his countenance grew more
      serious as he proceeded with his scrutiny.  
  "Yes," he exclaimed, after a long pause; "the fact is glaring! Every one of these letters
      was opened   somewhere   ere they were delivered to you. The utmost caution has been
      evidently used in re-sealing and re-stamping them;—nevertheless, there are proofs—undoubted
      proofs—that the whole of this correspondence has been violated in its transit from the writer
      to the receiver."  
  "But what object—what motive——"  
  "I have long entertained suspicions," said the Earl of Warrington, interrupting his fair
      mistress, "that there is one public institution in England which is made the scene of
      proceedings so vile—so detestable—so base as to cast a stain upon the entire nation. Those
      suspicions are now confirmed."  
  "What mean you?" inquired Diana: "to which institution do you allude?"  
  "  To the General Post-office  ," replied the Earl of Warrington.  
  "The General Post-office!" cried Mrs. Arlington, her countenance expressing the most
      profound astonishment.  
  "The General Post-office," repeated the earl. "But this is a matter of so serious a nature
      that I shall not allow it to rest here. You will lend me these letters for a few hours? I am
      more intimately acquainted with the Home Secretary than with any other of her Majesty's
      Ministers; and to him will I now proceed."  
  The earl consigned the letters to his pocket, and, with an air of deep determination, took a
      temporary leave of Mrs. Arlington.  
  Scarcely had the earl left the house, when Mr. Greenwood's valet, Filippo, was
      introduced.  
  "I have called, madam," said the Italian, "to inform you that I last night counteracted
      another of my master's plots, and saved a young female from the persecution of his
      addresses."  
  "You have done well, Filippo," exclaimed Mrs. Arlington. "Does your master suspect you?"  
  "Not in the remotest degree, madam. I contrived matters so well, that he believed the young
      person alluded to had escaped by her own means, and without any assistance, save that of a
      pair of sheets which enabled her to descend in safety from the window of the room in which she
      was confined."  
  "I am delighted to hear that your mission to England has been so successful, in thwarting
      the machinations of that bad man," observed Mrs. Arlington. "Have you heard any news from
      Castelcicala?"  
  "I have this morning received a Montoni newspaper, announcing the nuptials of the Grand Duke
      and the Marchioness of Ziani," replied Filippo.  
    
  "I have nothing more to say at present, madam," answered Filippo; "except, indeed," he
      added, suddenly recollecting himself, "that I overheard, a few days ago, a warm contention
      between my master and a certain Sir Rupert Harborough."  
  "Sir Rupert Harborough!" ejaculated Diana, a blush suddenly overspreading her cheeks.  
  "Yes, madam. From what I could learn, there was a balance of about a thousand pounds due
      from Sir Rupert Harborough to Mr. Greenwood, on a bill that purported to be the acceptance of
      Lord Tremordyn, but which was in reality a forgery committed by Sir Rupert himself."  
  "A forgery!" cried Diana.  
  "A forgery, madam. Sir Rupert bitterly reproached Mr. Greenwood with having suggested to him
      that mode of raising money, whereas Mr. Greenwood appeared to deny with indignation any share
      in the part of the transaction imputed to him. The matter ended by Mr. Greenwood declaring
      that if the bill were not paid to-morrow, when it falls due (having, it appears, been renewed
      several times), Sir Rupert Harborough should be prosecuted for forgery."  
  "And what said Sir Rupert Harborough to that?" inquired Diana.  
  "He changed his tone, and began to implore the mercy of Mr. Greenwood: but my master was
      inexorable; and Sir Rupert left the house with ruin and terror depicted upon his
      countenance."  
  "This battle you must allow them to fight out between themselves," said Diana, after a
      moment's hesitation. "I know Sir Rupert Harborough—know him full well; but I do not think that
      he is so thoroughly black-hearted as your master. He was once kind to me—once," she added,
      musing to herself rather than addressing the Italian valet: then, suddenly recollecting
      herself, she said, "However, Filippo—that affair does not regard you."  
  "Very good, madam," replied the valet; and he then took his departure.  
  The moment he was gone, Mrs. Arlington threw herself into her comfortable arm-chair, and
      became wrapt up in deep thought.  
  
  CHAPTER XCIV. THE HOME OFFICE.  
  IN a well furnished room, on the first-floor of the Home Office, sate the Secretary of State
      for that Department.  
  The room was spacious and lofty. The walls were hung with the portraits of several eminent
      statesmen who had, at different times, presided over the internal policy of the country. A
      round table stood in the middle of the apartment; and at this table, which groaned beneath a
      mass of papers, was seated the Minister.  
  At the feet of this functionary was a wicker basket, into which he threw the greater portion
      of the letters addressed to him, and over each of which he cast a glance of such rapidity that
      he must either have been a wonderfully clever man to acquire a notion of the contents of those
      documents by means of so superficial a survey, or else a very neglectful one to pay so little
      attention to affairs which were associated with important individual interests or which
      related to matters of national concern.  
  The time-piece upon the mantel struck twelve, when a low knock at the door of the apartment
      elicited from the Minister an invitation to enter.  
  A tall, thin, middle-aged, sallow-faced person, dressed in black, glided noiselessly into
      the room, bowed obsequiously to the Minister, and took his seat at the round table.  
  This was the Minister's private secretary.  
  The secretary immediately mended a pen, arranged his blotting-paper in a business-like
      fashion before him, spread out his foolscap writing paper, and then glanced towards his
      master, at much as to say, "I am ready."  
  "Take that pile of correspondence, if you please," said the Minister, "and run your eye over
      each letter."  
  "Yes, my lord," said the Secretary; and he glanced cursorily over the letters alluded to,
      one after the other, briefly mentioning their respective objects as he proceeded. "This
      letter, my lord, is from the chaplain of Newgate. It sets forth that there is a man of the
      name of William Lees at present under sentence of death in that prison; that William Lees, in
      a fit of unbridled passion, which bordered upon insanity, murdered his wife; that the conduct
      of the deceased was sufficient to provoke the most temperate individual to a similar deed;
      that he had no interest in killing her; and that he committed the crime in a moment over which
      he had no control."  
  "Do you remember anything of the case?" demanded the Home Secretary. "For my part, I have no
      time to read trials."  
  "Yes, my lord," replied the Secretary. "This William Lees is a barber; and his wife was of
      vile and most intemperate habits. He murdered her in a fit of exasperation caused by the
      discovery that she had pledged every thing moveable in the house, to obtain the means of
      buying drink."  
  "Oh! a barber—eh?" said the Home Secretary, yawning.  
  "Yes, my lord. Your lordship will remember that young Medhurst, who assassinated a
      school-fellow in a fit of passion, was only condemned to three years' imprisonment."  
  "Ah! but that was quite a different thing," exclaimed the Minister. "Medhurst was a
      gentleman; but this man is only a barber."  
  "True, my lord—very true," said the Secretary. "I had quite forgotten that."  
  "Make a memorandum, that the law in the case of William Lees must take its course."  
  "Yes, my lord;"—and the Secretary, having endorsed the note upon the letter, referred to
      another document. "This, my lord, is a petition from a political prisoner confined in a county
      gaol, and who sets forth that he is compelled to wear the prison dress, associate with felons
      of the blackest character, and eat the prison allowance. He humbly submits—"  
  "He may submit till he is tired," interrupted the Minister. "Make a memorandum to answer the
      petition to the effect that her Majesty's Secretary of State for the Home Department does not
      see any ground for interfering in the matter."  
  "Very good, my lord. This letter it from a pauper in the—— Union, stating that he has been
      cruelly assaulted, beaten, and ill-used by the master; that he has applied in vain to the Poor
      Law Commissioners for redress; and that he now ventures to submit his case to your
      lordship."  
  "Make a note to answer that the fullest inquiries shall be immediately instituted," said the
      Minister.  
  "Shall I give the necessary instructions for the inquiry, my lord?" asked the Secretary.  
   enough to permit any inquiry at all? Such a step would be almost certain to end
      in substantiating the pauper's charge against the master; and then there would be a clamour
      from one end of the country to the other against the New Poor Laws. We must smother all such
      affairs whenever we can; but by writing to say that the fullest inquiries shall be instituted,
      I shall be armed with a reply to any member who might happen to bring the case before
      Parliament. My answer to the charge would then be   that her Majesty's Government had
       instituted a full inquiry into the matter, and had ascertained that the pauper was a
       quarrelsome, obstreperous, and disorderly person, who was not to be believed upon his
       oath  ."  
  "True, my lord," said the Secretary, evidently struck by this display of ministerial wisdom.
      "The next letter, my lord, is from a clerk in the Tax Office, Somerset House. He complains
      that his income is too small, and that the Commissioners of Taxes refuse to augment it. He
      states in pretty plain terms, that unless he receives an augmentation, he shall not hesitate
      to publish the fact, that the Dividend Books of the Bank of England are removed to the
      Tax-Office every six months, in order that an account of every fundholder's stock in the
      government securities may be taken for the information of the Treasury and the Tax
      Commissioners: he adds that such an announcement would convulse the whole nation with alarm at
      the awful state of   espionnage   under which the people exist; and he states these
      grounds as a reason for purchasing his silence by means of an increase of salary."  
  "This is serious—very serious," said the Minister: "but the letter should have been
      addressed to the Chancellor of the Exchequer. You must enclose it to my colleague."  
  "Yes, my lord," replied the Secretary.  
  At this moment a gentle knock was heard at the door of the apartment.  
  The Secretary hastened to respond to the summons, and admitted two persons dressed in plain
      but decent attire. One was a short, stout, red-faced, consequential-looking man: the other was
      a tall, raw-boned, ungainly person, and seemed quite confounded at the presence in which he
      found himself.  
  The former of these individuals was an inspector of police: the latter was a common
      police-officer. Indeed, the reader has been already introduced to them, in the fourteenth
      chapter of this narrative.  
  Having ushered these individuals into the room, the private secretary hastened to breathe a
      few words in an under tone to the ear of his master.  
  "Oh! these are the men, are they?" said the Minister aloud.  
  "Yes, my lord," replied the Secretary; then, addressing the police-officers, he exclaimed.
      "Step forward, my men—step forward. There—that's right: now sit down at that side of the
      table, and let the one who can write best make notes of the instructions that will be
      immediately given to you."  
  Both the Minister and Secretary were cautious enough not to give those instructions in their
      own handwriting.  
  The men sate down, as they were desired; and the inspector whispered to his companion an
      order to assume the duties of amanuensis on the occasion.  
  "You are aware, my good fellows," said the Minister, "that there is to be a great political
      meeting to-morrow evening somewhere in Bethnal Green?"  
  "Yes, my lord," replied the inspector.  
  "It is necessary to the purposes of her Majesty's Government," continued the Minister, "that
      discredit should be thrown upon all political meetings when very liberal sentiments are
      enunciated."  
  "Yes, my lord," said the inspector. "Shall Crisp put that down, my lord?"  
  "There is no necessity to make a note of my observations, only of my instructions," answered
      the Minister, with a smile. "The best method of throwing discredit upon those meetings is to
      create a disturbance. You, Mr. Inspector, will therefore take care and have at least a dozen
      of your men in plain clothes at the assembly to-morrow evening."  
  "Yes, my lord. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "You will direct your men, Mr. Inspector, to applaud most vehemently all the inflammatory
      parts of the speeches made upon the occasion."  
  "Yes, my lord. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "You will contrive that Mr. Crisp, whom my secretary states to be a proper man for the
      purpose, shall himself make a speech to-morrow evening."  
  "Yes, my lord. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "This speech must be of the most violent and inflammatory kind: it must advocate the use of
      physical force, denounce the aristocracy, the government, and the parliament in the most
      blood-thirsty terms; it need not even spare her most gracious Majesty. Let the cry be
         Blood  ; and let your men, Mr. Inspector, applaud with deafening shouts, every period
      in this incendiary harangue."  
  "Yes, my lord. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "The well-disposed portion of the audience will remonstrate. Your men in plain clothes can
      thus readily pick a quarrel; and a quarrel may be easily made to lead to blows. Then let a
      posse of constables in uniform rush in, and lay about them with their bludgeons most
      unsparingly. The more broken heads and limbs, the better. Be sure to have some of the audience
      taken into custody; and on the following morning, appear against them before the
      police-magistrate."  
  "Yes, my lord. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "You will take especial care to denounce the individuals so captured, as the ringleaders of
      the riot, and the ones who made themselves most conspicuous in applauding the inflammatory
      speeches uttered on the occasion—especially those which advocated rebellion, bloodshed, and
      death to monarchy and aristocracy."  
  "Yes, my lord. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "If the magistrate asks you—as he will be certain to do," continued the Minister, "whether
      you are acquainted with the prisoners at the bar, you can say that they are well known to the
      police as most dangerous and disorderly characters."  
  "Yes, my lord. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "You see," said the Minister, turning towards his own private secretary, "it is ten to one
      that the individuals so arrested will be respectable tradesmen; and as they will thus obtain a
      taste of the treadmill (for we must send our private instructions to the magistrates at
      Lambeth Street, to that effect) the warning will be a most salutary one throughout the whole
      district—especially at a moment when the Spitalfields weavers are reduced to desperation by
      their dreadfully distressed condition."  
  "Of course, my lord," replied the Secretary. "Such a proceeding will sicken men of political
      meetings. Has your lordship any farther instructions for these officers?"  
    
  "Thank your lordship," exclaimed the inspector. "You may put that down, too, Crisp—and
      express your gratitude to his lordship for his kindness."  
  Mr. Crisp acted in all respects as he was desired; and having each made an awkward bow, the
      two officers retired.  
  "Now proceed with the correspondence," said the Minister.  
  "Yes, my lord," replied the Secretary. "Here is a letter from the mayor of ——, stating that
      the experiment of making the prisoners, tried and untried, who are confined in the gaol of
      that town, wear black masks whenever they are compelled to mingle together, works well. The
      mayor moreover states, that out of two hundred prisoners subjected to the   solitary
       system  , since the introduction of the plan into the gaol, only nineteen have gone mad,
      and of those only three have died raving. He therefore recommends the solitary system. He adds
      that all personal identity is now destroyed in the prison, and prisoners are known by
         numbers   instead of by their   names  . He concludes by inquiring whether these
      regulations shall continue in force?"  
  "Most assuredly," answered the Minister. "Make a note that a reply is to be sent to that
      effect. I am glad the system of solitary confinement, black cloth masks, and numbers instead
      of names, works well. I shall gradually apply it to every criminal prison in England. At the
      same time, I must endeavour to throw the odium of the introduction of that system upon the
      justices in quarter sessions assembled—in case I should be assailed on the subject in the
      House."  
  "Certainly, my lord. This letter is from the secret agent, sent down to Manchester to
      inquire into the constitution and principles of the Independent Order of Rechabites. He
      obtained admission into a lodge, and was regularly initiated a member of the Brotherhood. He
      finds that the Rechabites are about eighty thousand in number, having lodges in all the great
      cities and towns of England, with the head-quarters at Manchester. The Order is not political;
      but is formed of sections of the Teetotal Societies. The government need not entertain any
      fears of this combination. The agent sends up a detailed account of the secrets and signs
      connected with the Order, accompanied by a copy of the rules and regulations."  
  "These Teetotalers must not be encouraged. They are seriously injuring the Excise-revenues.
      Proceed."  
  "This letter, my lord, is from the principal agent sent down into the mining districts, to
      encourage a spirit of discontent amongst the pitmen. He says that he has no doubt of being
      enabled to produce a disturbance in the north, and thus afford your lordship the wished-for
      opportunity of sending more troops in that direction. When once over-awed by the presence of a
      formidable number of bayonets, the pitmen will be compelled to submit to the terms dictated by
      the coal-mine proprietors; and your lordship's aims will be thus accomplished."  
  "I am glad of that. The coal-mine proprietors are rich and influential men, whom it is
      necessary to conciliate," said the Minister. "What next?"  
  "Here is a letter, my lord," continued the Secretary, "from Sir Joseph Gosborne, stating
      that his daughter, Miss Gosborne, was taken into custody yesterday morning on an accusation of
      stealing a jar of anchovies from an oilman's shop. The magistrate refused to take bail, and
      remanded the young lady until next Monday. Sir Joseph is anxious that his daughter should be
      admitted to bail, because, in that case, should he fail to settle with the prosecutor, he can
      keep his daughter out of the way when the day of trial arrives, and pay the money for the
      estreated recognizances. He is moreover desirous that the case should be sent to the Sessions,
      because, if by any accident the matter   should   go to trial, a verdict of acquittal is
      certain at the hands of a Clerkenwell jury, but by no means sure with an Old Bailey one."  
  "Make a memorandum to write to the magistrate who will hear the case next Monday, to take
       bail—  moderate bail  , mind—and to refer the matter to the Sessions. We must not refuse
      to oblige Sir Joseph Gosborne."  
  While the private secretary was still writing, a servant entered and informed the Minister
      that Mr. Teynham was waiting, and solicited an audience.  
  "Ah! the new magistrate at Marlborough Street," exclaimed the Home Secretary. "Show him
      in."  
  Mr. Teynham, a middle-aged gentleman attired in black, was introduced accordingly. He bowed
      very low to the Minister, and, when desired to take a chair, obsequiously seated himself upon
      the very edge.  
  "I have recommended you to Her Majesty, Mr. Teynham," said the Minister, "as a fit and
      proper person to fill the situation of police-magistrate and justice of the peace at the
      Marlborough Street Court; and her Majesty has been most graciously pleased to confirm the
      appointment."  
  Mr. Teynham bowed very low, and became entangled in a labyrinth of acknowledgments, with
      which "deep gratitude"—"sense of duty"—"impartial distribution of justice," and such like
      phrases were blended.  
  "It is necessary," said the Minister, after a pause, "that I should give you a few
      instructions with respect to the functions upon which you are about to enter. You are aware,
      Mr. Teynham, that the young gentlemen of the aristocracy are occasionally addicted to
      wrenching off knockers, pulling down bells, and other innocent little pranks of a similar
      nature. These are delicate cases to deal with, Mr. Teynham; but I need scarcely inform you
      that the treadmill is   not   for the aristocracy."  
  "I understand, my lord. A trifling fine, with a reprimand—and a little wholesome
      advice—"  
  "Precisely, Mr. Teynham—precisely!" cried the Minister: "I see that you understand your
      business well. The nice discrimination which you possess will always teach you whether you
      have a gentleman to deal with, or not. If a low person choose to divert himself with
      aristocratic amusements, punish him—do not spare him—send him to the treadmill. In the same
      way that game is preserved for the sport of the upper classes, so must the knockers and the
      bells be saved from spoliation by the lower orders."  
  "I fully comprehend your lordship," said the newly-made magistrate. "I should like, however,
      to know your lordship's sentiments in one respect."  
  "Speak, Mr. Teynham," said the Minister, with the most condescending affability, or the most
      affable condescension—whichever the reader likes best.  
   before me—the nobleman for wrenching off the knocker and throwing it away, and
      the poor man for picking it up and selling it,—how am I to act in such a case?"  
  "Very ingenious—very ingenious, indeed, Mr. Teynham," said the Minister: "you will make an
      excellent magistrate! Your course in the case propounded is clear; the nobleman is fined five
      shillings for being drunk and disorderly—because all noblemen and gentlemen who wrench off
      knockers are drunk and disorderly; and the poor man must be committed to the House of
      Correction for three months. Nothing is plainer, Mr. Teynham."  
  "Nothing, my lord. Has your lordship any farther instructions?"  
  "Oh! decidedly," returned the Minister. "When any individual connected with a noble or
      influential family gets into a scrape, and is brought before you, hear the case in private,
      and exclude the reporters. Again, never commit such a person for trial, unless you are
      absolutely compelled. Let him go upon bail: it will be ten to one if you are ever troubled any
      more with the case. There is another point to which I must direct your attention. The practice
      of shoplifting among ladies has increased lately to a fearful degree. But, after all, it is
      only a   little eccentricity  —indeed one might almost call it an   amiable
       weakness  . The fact is, that many ladies will go into a shop, purchase a hundred-guinea
      shawl, and secrete an eighteen-penny pair of gloves. Prudent husbands and fathers avert the
      tradesman, with whom their wives and daughters deal, beforehand; and these trifling
      abstractions are duly entered in the running accounts; but now and then a lady   does  
      get taken up. In such a case you must show her every possible distinction. Order her a chair
      in the dock: and before the business comes on, permit her to remain with her friends in the
      'magistrates' private room.' Then, if the prosecutor hesitates in giving his evidence, fly
      into a passion, tell him that he is prevaricating and not worthy to be believed upon his oath,
      and indignantly dismiss the case. The accused lady can then step into her carriage, and drive
      off comfortably home."  
  "Your lordship's instructions shall be complied with to the very letter," said Mr.
      Teynham.  
  "In a word," continued the Minister, "you must always shield the upper classes as much as
      possible; and in order to veil their little peccadilloes, bring out the misdeeds of the lower
      orders in the boldest relief. This is the only way to support the doctrine that the poor
         must   be governed by the rich. Whenever young boys or girls appear as witnesses, ask
      them if they know the value of an oath; and if they reply in the negative, expatiate upon the
      frightful immorality prevalent among the poorer classes, so that the reporters may record your
      observations. This does good—and enables the Bishops to make long speeches in the House of
      Lords on the necessity of religious instruction, and the want of more churches. If you attend
      to these remarks of mine, Mr. Teynham, you will make an excellent magistrate."  
  "Your lordship may rely upon me," was the submissive answer.  
  "There is one more point—I had almost forgotten it," said the Home Secretary. "You must
      invariably take the part of the police. Remember that the oath of one police-officer is worth
      the oaths of a dozen defendants. This only applies to the collision of the police with the
      lower orders, mind. As a general rule, remember that the police are always   in the
       right   when the poor are concerned, and always   in the wrong   when the rich are
      brought before you. And now, Mr. Teynham, I have nothing more to say."  
  The newly-made magistrate rose, bowed several times, and withdrew, walking obsequiously upon
      the points of his toes for fear his boots should creak in the awful presence of the Home
      Secretary.  
  But if "his worship" were thus meek and lowly before his patron, he afterwards avenged
      himself for that constraint, when seated in the magisterial chair, upon the poor devils that
      appeared before him!  
  The private secretary was about to proceed with the correspondence addressed from different
      quarters to the Minister, when a servant entered the room, and placed a card upon the table
      before this great officer of state.  
  "The Earl of Warrington?" said the Minister. "I will receive him."  
  The servant withdrew, and the private secretary retired to an inner apartment.  
  In a few moments the Earl of Warrington was announced.  
  When the usual civilities had been exchanged between the two noblemen, the Earl of
      Warrington said, "I have called, my lord, upon a matter which, I hope from the knowledge I
      have of your lordship's character, will be considered by you as one of importance to the whole
      nation."  
  "The estimate your lordship forms of any business can be no mean guide to my own opinion,"
      answered the Minister.  
  "I am not quite aware whether I am acting in accordance with official etiquette, to bring
      the matter alluded to under the notice of your lordship, or whether it would have been more
      regular in me to have addressed myself direct to the Postmaster-General or the Prime Minister;
      but as I have the honour of being better acquainted with your lordship than with any of your
      colleagues in the administration, I made up my mind to come hither."  
  "I shall be most happy to serve your lordship in any way in my power," said the
      Minister.  
  "Then I shall at once come to the point," continued the Earl of Warrington. "A friend of
      mine—a lady who resides in London—has corresponded for some months past with a lady living in
      the state of Castelcicala; and there is every reason to believe that the letters addressed to
      my friend in London, have been opened during the transit."  
  "Indeed," said the Minister, not a muscle of whose countenance moved as he heard this
      communication. "May I ask what is the nature of the proofs that such is the fact?"  
  "I believe," returned the Earl of Warrington, "that the letters have been opened at the
      English Post-office."  
  "The English Post-office!" ejaculated the Minister, with an air of great surprise—whether
      real or affected, we must leave our readers to determine.  
  "Yes, my lord—the English Post-office," said the Earl of Warrington, firmly. "The proofs are
      these;"—and, extracting the letters from his pocket, he pointed out to the Minister the same
      appearances which he had ere now explained to Mrs. Arlington.  
  "On this last letter," said the Minister, "I perceive the ducal arms of Castelcicala."  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And her Serene Highness is a relative of your lordship, I believe?" observed the Minister
      inquiringly.  
  "Which circumstance, united with my friendship for Mrs. Arlington, has determined me to
      inquire into this matter—nay, to sift it to the very bottom."  
  "Your lordship can scarcely suppose that the contents of letters are violated by the
      sanction of the Post-Master General?" said the Minister, darting a keen glance upon the
      earl.  
  "I will not take upon myself to accuse any individual directly," was the answer.  
  "Nor is it worth while to scrutinise a matter which will probably terminate in the discovery
      that the impertinent curiosity of some clerk has led to the evil complained of," said the
      Minister.  
  "No, my lord—this violation of private correspondence has been conducted too systematically
      to be the work of a clerk surrounded by prying eyes and hurried with the fear of detection
      every moment. Here are two distinct coats of wax on several of the letters; and yet the
      impressions of the original seals are retained. Those impressions were not taken by artificial
      process in an instant, nor without previous preparation."  
  "Then whom does your lordship suspect?" inquired the Minister, with a trifling uneasiness of
      manner.  
  "I come to ask your lordship to furnish me with a clue to this mystery, and not to supply
      one. Were I acquainted with the real truth, I should know what course to pursue."  
  "And what course would that be?"  
  "In the next session of Parliament, I would rise in my place in the House of Lords, and
      proclaim to the whole nation—nay, to the entire world—the disgraceful fact, that England, the
      land of vaunted freedom, possesses an institution where the most sacred ties of honour are
      basely violated and trampled under foot."  
    
  "I am afraid that your lordship has now afforded me a clue to the mystery which has
      perplexed me," said the Earl of Warrington coldly.  
  "And as a nobleman devoted to your country, your lordship must recognise the imperious
      necessity of adopting such a course, at times, as the one now made known to you."  
  "As a nobleman devoted to my country," exclaimed the Earl of Warrington proudly, "I abhor
      and detest all underhand means of obtaining information which serves as a guide for diplomatic
      intrigue, but which in nowise affects the sterling interests of the state."  
  "Your lordship speaks warmly," said the Minister.  
  "And were I in my place in Parliament, I should speak more warmly—far more warmly still. I
      am, however, here in your lordship's apartment, and the laws of courtesy do not permit me to
      express my feelings as I elsewhere   should   do—and as I elsewhere   shall  
      do."  
  "Your lordship will reflect," said the Minister, now really alarmed,—"your lordship will
      reflect—maturely—seriously——"  
  "It requires no reflection to teach me my duty."  
  "But, my dear earl——"  
  "My lord?"  
  "The peace of the country frequently depends upon the information which we acquire in this
      manner."  
  "Then had the peace of the country better be occasionally menaced, than that the sacred
      envelope of a letter should be violated?"  
  "Your lordship is too severe," said the Minister.  
  "No—my lord: I am not, under the circumstances, severe enough. Behold the gross injustice of
      the system. The law forbids us to transmit sealed letters through any other medium than the
      Post-office; and yet that very Post-office is made the scene of the violation of those sacred
      missives. My lord, it is impossible to defend so atrocious a proceeding. Now, my lord, I have
      spoken as warmly as I feel."  
  "Really, my dear earl, you must not permit this little business to go any further. You shall
      have for your friends every satisfaction they require: their correspondence shall be strictly
      inviolate in future. And now, my lord," continued the Minister, with a smile whose deceptive
      blandness Mr. Greenwood would have envied, "let me request attention to another point. The
      Premier has placed your lordship's name on the list of peers who are to be raised to a more
      elevated rank ere the opening of the next session; and your lordship may exchange your coronet
      of an earldom against that of a marquisate."  
  "Her Majesty's government," replied the earl with chilling—freezing   hauteur  , "would
      do well to reserve that honour in respect to me, until it may choose to reward me when I shall
      have performed a duty that I owe my country, and exposed a system to express my full sense of
      which I dare not   now   trust my tongue with epithets. Good morning, my lord."  
  And the Earl of Warrington walked proudly from the room.  
  On the following day a cabinet council was held at the Home Office.  
  
  CHAPTER XCV. THE FORGER AND THE ADULTERESS.  
  IT was evening; and Lady Cecilia Harborough was seated alone in the drawing-room of the
      house which she and her husband occupied in Tavistock Square.  
  A cheerful fire blazed in the grate: the lamp upon the table diffused a soft and mellow
      lustre through the apartment.  
  Lady Cecilia's manner was pensive: a deep shade of melancholy overspread her countenance;
      and at times her lips quivered, and her bosom heaved convulsively.  
  She was evidently attempting to struggle with feelings of a very painful nature.  
  "Slighted—neglected—perhaps despised!" she at length murmured. "Oh! what an indignity! To
      have yielded myself up entirely to that man—and now to be cast aside in this manner! For
      months past have I observed that his conduct grew more and more cool towards me;—his visits
      became less frequent;—he made appointments with me and did not keep them;—he remonstrated with
      me for what he called my extravagance, when I asked him for money! Ah! how I endeavoured to
      close my eyes to the truth:—I forced myself to put faith in his excuses for absence—I
      compelled myself to be satisfied with his apologies for not keeping his engagements. Fool that
      I have been! Had I reproached—wept—stormed—and quarrelled, as other women would have done, he
      would yet be my slave: but I was too pliant—too easy—too docile,—and he has ended by
      contemning me! I wanted spirit—I was deficient in courage—I practised no artifice. I should
      have refused him my favours when he was most impassioned; I should have tantalized him—acted
      with caprice—set a high value upon the pleasures which he enjoyed in my arms. Oh! it is
      cruel—cruel! I have been the pensioned harlot of that man! He commanded the use of my person
      as he would that of the lowest prostitute in the street. I was too cheap—too willing—too ready
      to meet him half way in the dalliance of love! I caught a fine bird—and by leaving his cage
      open, have allowed him an opportunity to fly away! The indignity is insufferable! For weeks I
      had not asked him for a shilling—for weeks I had not spoken to him on the subject of money.
      And now—to-day—when I require a hundred guineas for urgent matters, to be refused! to be
      denied that paltry sum! Oh! it is monstrous! And not to come himself to explain,—but to send a
      cool note, expressing a regret that the numerous demands he has had upon him lately render it
      impossible for him to comply with my request! A worn-out excuse—a wretched apology! And for
      him, too, who absolutely rolls in riches! I never could have believed it. Even now it appears
      a dream! Ah! the ungrateful monster! It is true that he has supplied me at times in the most
      generous manner,—that he redeemed my jewels for me a second time, some months ago, when Rupert
      played me that vile trick by plundering me during my absence;—but, alas! the jewels have
      returned to their old place—and who is to redeem them   now  ?"  
  Lady Cecilia paused, and compressed her lips together.  
  She felt herself slighted—perhaps for some rival: and whose sufferings are more acute than
      those of a neglected woman? who experiences mental pangs more poignant?  
  Lady Cecilia felt herself degraded. She now comprehended that she had been made the
      instrument of a heartless libertine's pleasures; and that he coolly thrust her aside when
      literally satiated with her charms.  
  This was a most debasing conviction—debasing beyond all others, for a patrician lady!  
   herself for gold: she remembered how willingly, how easily she surrendered
      herself on the first occasion of her criminality; and she despised herself, because she felt
      that Greenwood despised her also!  
  She had no virtue—but she had pride.  
  The highest bidder might enjoy her person, so voluptuous was she by nature—so ready also was
      she to make any sacrifice to obtain the means of gratifying her extravagance.  
  Love with her was not a refinement—it was a sensuality.  
  Still she had her pride—her woman's pride; for even the most degraded courtezan has
         that  ; and it was her pride that was now so deeply wounded.  
  She knew not what course to pursue.  
  Should she endeavour to bring Greenwood back to her arms?  
  Or should she be revenged?  
  If she resolved upon the former, what wiles was she to adopt—what artifices to employ?  
  If she decided upon the latter, what point in her neglectful lover was vulnerable—what
      weapon could she use?  
  A woman does not like to choose the alternative of vengeance, because such a proceeding
      implies the absence of all hope and of all power of recalling the faithless one.  
  And yet what was Lady Cecilia to do? That refusal of the money which she had requested,
      appeared expressive of Mr. Greenwood's determination to break off the connexion.  
  In that case nothing remained to her but vengeance.  
  Such were her thoughts.  
  Her reverie was interrupted by the sudden entrance of her husband Sir Rupert Harborough. His
      face was flushed with drinking—for he had dined, with his friend Chichester, at a tavern; and
      his cares had forced him to apply with even more than usual liberality to the bottle.  
  He threw himself into a chair opposite to his wife, and said, "Well, Cecilia, I have got
      very bad news to tell you."  
  "Indeed, Sir Rupert?" she said, in a tone which signified that   she   also had her
      annoyances, and would rather not be troubled with   his  .  
  "I have, on my honour!" cried the baronet. "In fact, Cecilia, I must find a thousand pounds
      to-morrow by twelve o'clock."  
  Lady Cecilia only laughed ironically.  
  "You make merry, madam, at my misfortunes," said Sir Rupert; "but I can assure you that the
      present is no laughing matter."  
  "And I unfortunately have no more diamonds and jewellery for you to rob me of," returned the
      lady.  
  "No, Cecilia—but you are my wife; and the disgrace that falls upon your husband would
      redound on yourself."  
  "Oh! if you be afraid of rusticating in the Queen's Bench prison for a season, I would
      advise you to make yourself easy on that head; because—"  
  "Because what, Cecilia?"  
  "Because I can assure all your friends and acquaintances that you are merely passing the
      winter in Paris."  
  "Ridiculous!" cried the baronet impatiently.  
  "Not so ridiculous as you imagine," returned Lady Cecilia. "You are accustomed, you know, to
      leave home for weeks and months together."  
  "Lady Cecilia, this is no time for either ill-feeling or sarcasm. If we have no love for one
      another, at least let us sit down and converse calmly upon the urgency of our present
      situation."  
  "  Our   situation?" ejaculated Cecilia.  
  "Yes—  ours  ," repeated the baronet emphatically. "In one word, Cecilia, can you
      possibly raise a thousand pounds?"  
  To a person who had not the means of obtaining even the tenth part of that sum, and who had
      herself been disappointed that very evening in her endeavour to procure a hundred guineas, the
      question put by the baronet appeared in so ridiculous a light, that—in spite of her own
      annoyances—Lady Cecilia threw herself back in her chair, and burst into a loud and hearty
      laugh.  
  Sir Rupert rose and paced the room in an agitated manner; for he was totally at a loss what
      course to pursue. His only hope was in his wife; and yet he knew not how to break the fatal
      news to her.  
  "My God! Cecilia," he exclaimed, after a pause, during which he resumed his seat, "you will
      drive me mad!"  
  "You have become very sensitive of late, Sir Rupert; and yet I was not aware that you were
      so weak-minded as to tremble upon the verge of insanity. Certainly your conduct has never led
      me to suppose that you were over sane."  
  "My dear Cecilia, cease this raillery, in the name of every thing sacred," cried the
      baronet. "I tell you that ruin hangs over me—ruin of the most fearful nature—ruin in which
      your own name, as that of my wife, will be compromised—"  
  "Then tell me at once what you dread, and I will tell you whether I can assist you; for I
      know perfectly well that you require me to do something."  
  "Do not ask me what it is, Cecilia; but say—can you procure from any quarter—  from any
       quarter  , mind—a thousand pounds?"  
  "Absurd! Sir Rupert," answered the lady. "I have no means of helping myself at this
      moment—much less of providing so large a sum to supply your extravagance. This is a debt of
      honour, I presume—a debt contracted at the gambling table."  
  "No—it is far more serious than that, Cecilia; and you   must   exert yourself. If I do
      not have that amount by twelve to-morrow, the consequences will be most fatal. I know you can
      borrow the money for me—you have resources, no matter where or how—I ask no questions—I do not
      wish to pry into your secrets—"  
  "You are really very considerate, Sir Rupert. You do not wish to pry into my secrets: but
      you would not hesitate to pry into my drawers and boxes, if you thought there was any thing in
      them worth taking."  
  And as she uttered these words, a smile of superb contempt curled her vermilion lips.  
  Sir Rupert was maddened by this behaviour on the part of his wife; and with difficulty could
      he restrain his feelings of rage and hatred.  
  "Madam," he exclaimed, "I ask you to throw aside your raillery, and converse with me—for
      once—in a serious manner."  
  "I am willing to do so, Sir Rupert," answered Cecilia; "but you really appear to be joking
      me yourself. You speak in enigmas about the ruin that hangs over   you   and will involve
         me  ;—you refuse to entrust me with more of your secret than is necessary to serve as
      a preface for your demand;—and that demand is a thousand pounds! A thousand pounds are
      required in a few hours of a person who has no diamonds to pledge—no friends to apply to—"  
   creditors—the servants' wages and the rent have been regularly paid—"  
  "And all this has been done without the contribution of one shilling on the part of my
      husband towards the household expenses," added Lady Cecilia.  
  "I am glad you have mentioned that point," exclaimed Sir Rupert: "it proves that you
         have   friends—that perhaps your father and mother assist you in private,—in a word,
      that you have some resources. Now what those resources may be, I do not ask you: all I require
      is assistance—now—within a few hours—before twelve to-morrow."  
  "Even if I could raise the sum you require," said Cecilia, "I would not think of giving it
      to you without knowing for what destination it was intended."  
  "And can you procure the sum, if I reveal to you—if I tell you——"  
  "I promise nothing," interrupted Lady Cecilia drily.  
  "But you will do your best?" persisted the baronet.  
  "I will do nothing without being previously made aware of the real nature of your
      difficulties."  
  "I will then keep you in the dark no longer. The cause of my embarrassment is a bill of
      exchange, for a thousand pounds, now lying in Greenwood's hands, and due to-morrow."  
  "That is but a simple debt; and, methinks, Sir Rupert, that your acquaintance with bills is
      not so slight as to render you an alarmist respecting the consequences."  
  "Were it only a simple matter of debt, I should care but little," said Sir Rupert, still
      compelled to support the biting raillery of his wife: "but unfortunately—in an evil hour—I
      know not what demon prompted me at the moment——"  
  "Speak, Sir Rupert—tell me the truth at once," cried Lady Cecilia, now really alarmed.  
  "I say that in an evil hour—in a moment of desperation—in an excess of frenzy—I committed a
      forgery!"  
  "A forgery!" repeated Lady Cecilia, turning deadly pale. "Ah! what a disgrace to the
      family—what shame for me——"  
  "I told you that my ruin would redound upon yourself, Cecilia. But there is more yet for you
      to hear. The acceptance that I forged——"  
  "Well?"  
  "Was that of Lord Tremordyn——"  
  "My father!"  
  "And now you know all. Can you assist me?"  
  "Sir Rupert, I have no means of raising one tenth part of the sum that you need to cover
      this infamous transaction."  
  "And yet you seemed to say that if I told you the nature of my difficulties——"  
  "I was curious to learn your secret; and as you appeared resolved to keep it from
         me  , I thought I would see if there were no means of wheedling it out of
        you  ."  
  "And you therefore have no hope to give me?" said the baronet, in a tone of despair.  
  "None. Where could I raise one thousand pounds? how am I to obtain such a sum? It is for you
      either to pacify Mr. Greenwood, or to throw yourself at my father's feet and confess all."  
  "Mr. Greenwood is resolute; and you know that your father would spurn me from his presence.
      So far from me being able to help myself, it is for you to help me. Perhaps Mr. Greenwood
      would listen to your representations; or else Lord Tremordyn would accord to you what he would
      never concede to me."  
  "You cannot suppose that I can have any influence upon Mr. Greenwood," began Lady Cecilia:
      "and as for—"  
  "On the contrary," said Sir Rupert, fixing his eyes in a significant manner upon his wife's
      countenance; "I have every reason to believe that your influence over Mr. Greenwood is very
      great; and I will now thank you to exercise it in my behalf."  
  "What do you mean, Sir Rupert?" exclaimed Cecilia, a deep blush suffusing her face, and her
      eyes sinking beneath her husband's expressive look.  
  "Do not force me to explanations, Cecilia," returned the baronet. "I know more than you
      imagine—I have proofs of more than you fancy I could even suspect. But of that no matter:
      relieve me from this embarrassment—and I will never trouble you about   your  
      pursuits."  
  "What would you have me do?" asked the guilty wife, in a trembling voice.  
  "Go to Greenwood and settle this business for me," said the baronet, in an authoritative
      tone.  
  "I cannot—I dare not—I have no right to demand such a favour of him—I should be certain to
      experience a refusal—I—"  
  "Lady Cecilia," interrupted the baronet, speaking in a slow and emphatic manner, "Mr.
      Greenwood is too gallant a man to refuse a mere trifle to a lady who has refused nothing to
      him."  
  "Sir Rupert—you cannot suppose—you—"  
  "I mean what I say, madam," added the baronet sternly. "Mr. Greenwood is your paramour, and
      you can surely use your influence with him to save your husband."  
  "My God! what do I hear?" ejaculated Cecilia. "What proof have you, Sir Rupert—what
      testimony—what ground—"  
  "Every proof—every testimony—every ground," interrupted the baronet impatiently. "But, again
      I say, I do not wish to ruin your reputation, if you will save mine."  
  "Impossible!" cried Lady Cecilia. "I do not deny that Mr. Greenwood has accommodated me with
      an occasional loan—upon interest—"  
  "Interest indeed!" said the baronet, whose turn to assume a tone of raillery had now
      arrived: "interest paid from the bank of my honour!"  
  "Upon legal and commercial terms has he lent me money," continued Lady Cecilia; "and this
      very evening has he refused to advance me another shilling!"  
  "Is that true, Cecilia?" demanded Sir Rupert.  
  "Nay—satisfy yourself," said the lady; and drawing a note from her bosom, she handed it to
      her husband.  
  The correspondence that passed between Mr. Greenwood and Lady Cecilia was always of a
      laconic and most guarded nature: there was consequently nothing in the letter now communicated
      to Sir Rupert Harborough, to confirm his belief in his wife's criminality. Indeed, the epistle
      was neither more nor less than any gentleman might write upon a matter of business to any
      lady.  
    
  "Oh! that villain Chichester!" murmured Lady Cecilia.  
  "That ever since that day," continued the baronet, "Chichester and myself have watched your
      proceedings—have seen you, Cecilia, repair to the appointments agreed upon with your
      paramour—"  
  "But this is atrocious!" ejaculated the lady, now dreadfully excited.  
  "Nay—do not interrupt me," said Sir Rupert in an imperative manner. "You must tell Mr.
      Greenwood that I and my witness have followed you both to an hotel at Greenwich—that we have
      been in the next room and have overheard your conversation—that we have been aware of the
      moments of your amorous dalliance—"  
  "Ah! Sir Rupert—do you want to kill me" cried Cecilia, bursting into an agony of tears.  
  "Nonsense!" ejaculated the baronet: "I only want you to save me, and I will screen you. Go,
      then, to Greenwood—tell him all this—assure him that I know all—that for months have I been
      watching you—and that I should obtain from him damages far more important than the amount of
      this acceptance, but that I am willing to compromise the business by the destruction of that
      document."  
  "And why could you not have acquainted Mr. Greenwood with all this when you last saw him?"
      demanded Lady Cecilia, drying her tears, and endeavouring to compose herself, now that the
      worst was known.  
  "I did not intend to mention my knowledge of your criminality at all," said Sir Rupert; "and
      had you consented in the first instance to use your influence with Greenwood to obtain the
      money to settle the bill, you would not have forced me to these revelations."  
  "Say rather, Sir Rupert Harborough," exclaimed the lady, "that you would have me obtain for
      you the means to pay this forged bill; and when once you were freed from the power of
      Greenwood, you would have brought your action against him, and exposed your wife. But as you
      have failed in making   me  —the wife whom you would thus expose—the instrument of
      procuring that sum,—and as the danger now stares you in the face, you proclaim your knowledge
      of our connexion, and use it as a means to compromise the forgery."  
  "Cecilia, you do not think me capable——"  
  "I think you capable of any thing," interrupted his wife indignantly; and it was singular to
      see that adulterous woman—that criminal wife—that profligate female now putting her husband to
      the blush, by exposing his base designs.  
  "Well—after all," exclaimed Sir Rupert, "recriminations will do no good. Go to
      Greenwood—settle the affair—and the past shall be buried in oblivion."  
  "And what guarantee do you offer to ensure eternal secresy on your part, provided Mr.
      Greenwood will give up this forged bill?"  
  "I will sign any paper he may require," replied the baronet. "But time presses—it is now
      nearly ten o'clock—and to-morrow morning——"  
  "I will go to Mr. Greenwood," said Lady Cecilia, rising from her seat: "I will go to him—and
      endeavour to compromise this affair to the best of my power."  
  Sir Rupert rang the bell and ordered wine to be brought up, while Lady Cecilia hastened to
      her boudoir to attire herself for going out; and in the mean time a servant was despatched to
      procure a cab.  
  The vehicle arrived and Lady Cecilia was already upon the threshold of the front door of the
      house, when a servant in a handsome livery ascended the steps, presented a letter, and said
      "For Sir Rupert Harborough."  
  Lady Cecilia received the letter; and the servant who delivered it, immediately took his
      departure.  
  The lady was about to send in the letter by her own domestic to her husband, when the
      superscription on the envelope caught her eyes by the light of the hall-lamp. The writing was
      in the delicate hand of a female; and, without a moment's hesitation, Cecilia consigned the
      epistle to her reticule.  
  She then stepped into the vehicle, and ordered the driver to take her to Spring Gardens.  
  There were two bright lamps fixed in front of the cab; and by these means was Lady Cecilia
      enabled to examine the contents of the letter intended for her husband.  
  Without the least hesitation she opened the letter, and to her ineffable surprise discovered
      that it contained a Bank of England note for one thousand pounds.  
  This treasure was accompanied by a letter, the contents of which were as follows:—  
  
  "An individual who once received some kindness at the hands of Sir Rupert Harborough, has
       learnt by a strange accident that Sir Rupert Harborough has a pressing need of a sum of money
       to liquidate a debt due to Mr. George Montague Greenwood. The individual alluded to takes
       leave to place the sum required at Sir Rupert Harborough's disposal."  
  
  No name—no date—no address were appended to this mysterious note. The writing was in a
      delicate female hand;—and a servant in a handsome livery had delivered the letter. These
      circumstances, combined with the handsome manner in which the money was tendered, refuted the
      suspicion that some female, with whom Sir Rupert was illicitly connected, had thus befriended
      him.  
  Lady Cecilia was bewildered: the pain of conjecture and doubt was however absorbed in the
      pleasurable feelings excited by the possession of so large a sum of money.  
  The cab now stopped at Mr. Greenwood's residence.  
  
  CHAPTER XCVI. THE MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT'S LEVEE.  
  "You have doubtless called, my dear Cecilia," said Mr. Greenwood, as he handed the fair
      visitant to a seat in his elegant drawing-room,—"you have doubtless called to remonstrate with
      me respecting my note of this evening."  
  "No," answered Cecilia coldly: "I come on a more momentous affair than that: Sir Rupert
      knows all!"  
  "Ah!" cried Greenwood; "is it possible that the villain Chichester—"  
  "Has betrayed us," added the lady. "Moreover, Sir Rupert and his inseparable friend have
      been watching and dogging all our movements for months past."  
  "This is awkward—very awkward," observed Greenwood. "However, Sir Rupert will not dare show
      his teeth against me, nor venture to give publicity to the affair."  
  "Because you hold his bill, with a forged acceptance, for one thousand pounds," said Lady
      Cecilia.  
  "Ah! he has told you that much—has he?" exclaimed Greenwood. "Well—you perceive, my dearest
      Cecilia, that he is completely in my power."  
   by Sir Rupert to negotiate the amicable settlement of the affair with you."  
  "Indeed!" cried Greenwood. "He could not have chosen a more charming plenipotentiary."  
  "His proposal is this:—you are to give up the acceptance, and he will sign any paper you
      choose to guarantee you against legal proceedings on his part."  
  "I do not see, fair ambassadress," said Greenwood, who did not treat the business with so
      much serious attention as Lady Cecilia had anticipated—"I do not see that I should benefit
      myself by such an arrangement. So long as the bill remains in my possession, it is impossible
      for Sir Rupert Harborough to commence civil proceedings against me, because he knows full well
      that were he to have process issued against me, I should that moment hand him over to the
      officers of justice."  
  "Then, for my sake, Mr. Greenwood," said Lady Cecilia, cruelly hurt by this cold calculation
      on the part of a man the slave of whose passions she had so completely been,—"for my sake,
      compromise this affair amicably."  
  "A thousand pounds is a large sum to fling into the street, my dear Cecilia," observed
      Greenwood.  
  "And suppose that by some accident my husband should raise that amount and pay the
      bill—"  
  "It never was my intention to allow him to pay all," interrupted Greenwood. "I imagined that
      by threatening him, I should obtain five or six hundred on account, and I should still hold
      the bill for the balance. That balance I would not receive, were he to offer it, because by
      retaining the bill, I keep him in my power."  
  "Then, once again, for my sake—  for my sake  ," repeated Lady Cecilia, "consent to the
      proposal made to you this evening—settle the affair in an amicable manner."  
  "To oblige you, my dear Cecilia, I will assent to Sir Rupert Harborough's proposal. Let him
      draw up and sign a document in which he acknowledges that he has discovered the—the—"  
  "Criminal conversation between his wife and Mr. George Greenwood," said Cecilia: "we will
      not mince words in a negotiation of this kind," she added ironically.  
  "Precisely," exclaimed Greenwood, coolly; "and that he has received full satisfaction for
      the same. In this manner the business can be disposed of to the satisfaction of all
      parties."  
  "To-morrow morning at eleven o'clock I will call with that paper," said Lady Cecilia.  
  "And I will give you up the forged bill," returned the Member of Parliament. "And now, my
      dear Cecilia, allow me to make an observation relative to the answer I sent you this evening
      to your little note. The truth is, that representing as I do an enlightened and independent
      constituency—"  
  "Pardon me," said Lady Cecilia, rising: "we will not talk of any other business until this
      most painful affair be settled."  
  The fair patrician lady then took her leave, and returned to her husband, who awaited
      Greenwood's decision in a state of the most painful suspense.  
  Cecilia communicated to him the particulars of the interview; and, ere he retired to rest,
      the baronet drew up the document which was to save himself by the compromise of his
      honour.  
  "So far, so good," said Sir Rupert, as he handed the paper to his wife. "I have now a
      proposal to make to you, Cecilia—and I have little doubt that you will accept it."  
  "Proceed," said Cecilia.  
  "After the explanation which has taken place between us this evening, it is impossible that
      we can ever entertain much respect for each other again. You know me to be a forger—I know you
      to be unfaithful to my bed. If it suits you, we will agree to live together beneath the same
      roof as hitherto—to have our separate apartments—to maintain an appearance of enjoying
      domestic tranquillity—and each to follow his own pursuits without leave or remonstrance on the
      part of the other. You will never interfere with me—I will never interfere with you. If you
      hear that I have a mistress, you will take no notice of it: if I know that you have a lover, I
      shall be equally blind and dumb. Does this please you?"  
  "Perfectly," answered Lady Cecilia. "Shall we commit this compact to writing?"  
  "Oh! with much pleasure," returned Sir Rupert. "I will draw up two agreements, embodying the
      conditions of our compact, immediately. You can retain one; and I will keep the other."  
  The baronet set to work, and, in a most business-like manner, wrote out the compact. He then
      read it to Lady Cecilia, who signified her approval of its terms. A counterpart was written;
      and the husband and wife signed the papers that released them from all the moral obligations
      of their marriage-vows!  
  They then retired to their separate apartments, better pleased with each other, perhaps,
      than they had been for a long—long time.  
  The reader need scarcely be informed that Lady Cecilia said nothing to her husband relative
      to the mysterious letter containing the Bank note for a thousand pounds.  
  On the following morning Lady Cecilia repaired to the abode of Mr. Greenwood. When she
      arrived in Spring Gardens, she found the street completely blocked up with a train of charity
      children—boys and girls, marshalled by the parish beadle, and accompanied by the schoolmaster
      and schoolmistress. The girls were attired in their light blue dresses, plain straw bonnets,
      white collars, and pepper-and-salt coloured cloaks; and their arms, red with the cold, were
      only half covered with their coarse mittens. The boys wore their muffin caps, short coats, and
      knee-breeches; and each was embellished with a large tin plate, or species of medal, affixed
      like a badge of honour, to the breast. Their meagre countenances, their thin arms, and lanky
      legs, did not speak much in favour of the quantity of food which constituted their diurnal
      meals.  
  Lady Cecilia was conducted to the drawing-room by the Italian valet, who informed her that
      Mr. Greenwood would wait upon her the moment he had dismissed the charity children.  
  Lafleur, in the mean time threw open the door of the mansion, and admitted the procession
      into the spacious hall, after having kept the poor creatures shivering in the cold for nearly
      a quarter of an hour. The beadle took his station upon the steps, with awful dignity, and
      watched the boys and girls as they defiled past him in military order into the hall. It was
      very evident from the timid glances which the little scholars cast towards the countenance of
      this functionary, that they believed him to be one of the most important personages on the
      face of the earth; and perhaps they were even perplexed to decide, in their own minds, whether
      the parish beadle whom they saw before them, or Mr. Greenwood, M. P., whom they were about to
      see, was the greater man of the two.  
   beadle enter. He doffed his enormous cocked hat out of respect to the owner of
      the dwelling in which he now found himself, and made his long staff ring upon the marble
      pavement of the hall with a din that electrified the children and called looks of solemn
      importance to the countenances of the schoolmaster and mistress.  
  In a few moments a side door opened, and Mr. Greenwood appeared.  
  The beadle struck his stick upon the hall floor once more; and the children, duly tutored to
      obey the signal, saluted the great man, the girls with low curtseys, and the boys by doffing
      their muffin caps, bobbing their heads forward, and kicking back their left legs.  
  "Well, Mr. Muffles," said the Member of Parliament to the beadle, with one of his usual
      affable smiles; "brought your little family—eh?"  
  "These children, sir," responded Muffles in a self-sufficient and important tone, glancing
      at the same time in a patronising manner upon the groups of juveniles around—"these children,
      sir, has come, as in dooty bounden, to hoffer up the hincense of their most gratefullest
      thanks to you, sir, as their kind paytron which supplied 'em with pea-soup, blankets, and
      religious tracts, to keep their bodies and souls both warm and comfortable, as one may
      say."  
  "I am delighted, Mr. Muffles," replied the Member of Parliament, in a most condescending
      manner, "to receive this little mark of gratitude on the part of those for whom I entertain a
      deep interest, and I am the more pleased because this visit on their part was quite
      spontaneous, and on mine totally unlooked for."  
  Mr. Greenwood did not think it necessary to state his knowledge that the whole affair had
      been got up by Lafleur, in obedience to his own commands.  
  "Representing as I do," continued Mr. Greenwood, "an enlightened, independent, and important
      constituency, I cannot do otherwise than feel interested in the welfare of the rising
      generation; and when I glance upon the happy countenances of these dear children, I thank God
      for having given me the means to contribute my mite towards the maintenance of the schools of
      the parish wherein I have the honour to reside."  
  Mr. Muffles' stick was here rapped upon the floor with tremendous violence; and the boys and
      girls immediately burst forth into shrill cries of "Hear! hear!"  
  When silence was once more restored, the beadle in due form presented the schoolmaster and
      schoolmistress to Mr. Greenwood.  
  "This gen'leman, sir," said the parish functionary, "is Mr. Twiggs, the parochial
      perceptor—as worthy a man, sir, as ever broke bread. He's bin in his present sitivation
      thirteen year come Janivary—"  
  "Febivary, Mr. Muffles," said the schoolmaster, mildly correcting the beadle.  
  "Oh! Febivary, be it, Mr. Twiggs?" exclaimed the parish authority. "And this, sir, is Mrs.
      Twiggs, a lady well known for her excellent qualities in teaching them blessed young gals, and
      taking care o' their linen."  
  "Delighted to see your scholars looking so well, Mr. Twiggs," said Greenwood, bowing to the
      master: "quite charmed, Mrs. Twiggs, to behold the healthy and neat appearance of your girls,"
      he added, bowing to the mistress.  
  "Would you be kind enough, sir," said Mr. Twiggs, in a meek and fawning tone, "to question
      any of them lads on any pint of edication?"  
  "Perhaps I might as well, Mr. Twiggs," returned Greenwood; "in case I should ever have to
      allude to the subject in the House of Commons."  
  The mere idea of any mention of the parochial school being made in Parliament, produced such
      an impression upon the beadle that he banged his staff most earnestly on the hall floor; and
      the children, taking it for a signal which they had been previously tutored to observe, again
      yelled forth "Hear! Hear!"  
  "Silence!" thundered Mr. Muffles; and the vociferations instantly ceased.  
  "Now, my boy," said Mr. Greenwood, addressing the one who stood nearest to him, "I will ask
      you a question or two. What is your name?"  
  "Jem Blister, sir," was the prompt reply.  
  "James Blister—eh? Well—who gave you that name?"  
  "Father and mother, please, sir."  
  "Blister, for shame!" ejaculated Mr. Muffles, with a terrific frown: then, by way of
      prompting the lad, he said, "  My Godfathers and  —"  
  "  My Godfathers and Godmother in my baptism  ," hastily cried the boy, catching at the
      hint; and after a pause, he added, "  I mean an outward and visible sign of an
      inward  —"  
  "Blister, I am raly ashamed of you!" again exclaimed Mr. Twiggs. "Stand back, sir; and let
      the boy behind you stand for'ard."  
  Another urchin stepped forth from the rank, and stood, blushing up to his very hair, and
      fumbling about with his cap, in the presence of Mr. Greenwood.  
  "My good boy," said the Member of Parliament, condescendingly patting him upon the head,
      "what is   your   name?"  
  "M. or N. as the case may be, please, sir," replied the boy.  
  "I should observe, sir," said the schoolmaster, "that this lad only began his Catechism
      yesterday."  
  "Oh very well, Mr. Twiggs," exclaimed Greenwood: "that accounts for his answer! I will ask
      him something else, then. My good lad, who was Adam?"  
  "The fust man, sir."  
  "Very good, my boy. And who was Eve?"  
  "The fust 'ooman, sir."  
  "Very good indeed," repeated Mr. Greenwood. "Now tell me what is the capital of
      England?"  
  "This boy is not in geography, sir," said Mr. Twiggs. "He's jest begun cyphering."  
  "Oh very good. Can you say your multiplication table, my boy?"  
  "Twice one's two; twice two's three; twice three's eight; twice four's ten; twice five's
      fourteen—"  
  The boy was rattling on at a furious pace, when the ominous voice of Mr. Twiggs ejaculated,
      "Garlick, I am ashamed of you!"  
  And Master Garlick began to cry most piteously.  
  "Come, it is not so bad, though," said Mr. Greenwood, by way of soothing the discomfited
      schoolmaster and restoring the abashed beadle to confidence; "he evidently knows his Bible
      very well—and that is the essential."  
  The Member of Parliament then delivered himself of a long harangue in favour of a sound
      religious education and in praise of virtue; and thus ended the solemn farce.  
  The great man bowed and withdrew: the beadle rapped his staff upon the floor; Lafleur opened
      the door; and the procession filed slowly out of the mansion.  
   on the following morning, hurried up to the drawing-room where Lady Cecilia
      awaited him.  
  "My dear Cecilia," he exclaimed, as he entered the room, "a thousand pardons for keeping
      you; but the fact is that the position in which an intelligent and independent constituency
      has placed me, entails upon me duties—"  
  "A truce to that absurdity with me," interrupted the baronet's wife, in a more peremptory
      tone than Mr. Greenwood had ever yet heard her use. "I am come according to appointment to
      settle a most unpleasant business. Here is my husband's acknowledgment, drawn up as you
      desired: please to deliver up to me the bill."  
  Mr. Greenwood ran his eye over the document, and appeared satisfied. He then drew forth the
      bill from his pocket-book, and handed it to Lady Cecilia.  
  There was a flush upon the lady's delicately pale countenance; and her eyes sparkled with
      unusual vivacity. She was dressed in a very neat, but plain and simple manner; and Mr.
      Greenwood fancied that she had never seemed so interesting before.  
  As he delivered the bill into her keeping, he took her hand and endeavoured to convey it to
      his lips.  
  She drew back with an air of offended dignity, which would have well become a lady that had
      never surrendered herself to the pleasures of an illicit love.  
  "No, Mr. Greenwood," she said, in a firm, and even haughty tone: "all   that   is ended
      between you and me. You are a heartless man, who cannot appreciate the warmth with which a
      confiding woman yields herself up to you;—you have treated me—the daughter of a peer—like a
      pensioned mistress. But let that now pass:—I have made you acquainted with the nature of my
      thoughts—and I am satisfied."  
  "I am at a loss to understand how I should have deserved these harsh words, Cecilia,"
      replied Greenwood, with a somewhat supercilious smile; "but perhaps my inability to supply you
      with the means of gratifying your extravagances has given you offence."  
  "Your cool indifference of late has indeed given me a bitter lesson," said Lady Cecilia.  
  "And yet I manifested every disposition to serve you, madam," rejoined Greenwood haughtily,
      "when I consented to compromise your husband's felony."  
  "Yes—you generously abandoned your claim to a thousand pounds," exclaimed Cecilia, with
      cutting irony, "in order to hush up an intrigue with the wife of the man whom you had
      inveigled into your net. But think not, Mr. Greenwood, that I attempt to justify my husband's
      conduct: I know him to be a heartless—a bad—an unprincipled man;—and yet, Mr. Greenwood, I do
      not conceive that   you   would shine the more resplendently by being placed in contrast
      with   him  . One word more. Had you refused to deliver up that bill, I was prepared to
      pay it. Some unknown friend had heard of this transaction—heaven alone knows how; and that
      friend forwarded last evening the means wherewith to liquidate this debt. Here is the letter
      which contained a Bank-note for a thousand pounds: it fell into my hands, and my husband knows
      naught concerning it;—can you say whose writing that is?"  
  Greenwood glanced hastily at the letter, and exclaimed, "Yes—I know that writing well: Mrs.
      Arlington is your husband's generous friend!"  
  "Mrs. Arlington!" exclaimed Cecilia: "Oh!—now I recollect that rumour points to that woman
      as having once been my husband's mistress."  
  "The same," said Greenwood, struck by this noble act on the part of the fair one whom he
      himself had first seduced from the paths of virtue.  
  "It would now be difficult to decide," observed Cecilia, in a tone of profound contempt,
      "which has acted the more noble part—the late mistress of Sir Rupert Harborough, or the late
      lover of his wife."  
  Greenwood only answered with a satirical curl of the lip.  
  Lady Cecilia rose from her seat, bowed coldly to the capitalist, and withdrew.  
  Thus terminated the amours of the man of the world and the lady of fashion—ending, as such
      illicit loves usually do, in a quarrel.  
  But the reader must not suppose that the same sentiments of pride which had thus induced
      Lady Cecilia to break off abruptly a connexion which her paramour had been for some time
      dissolving by degrees, influenced her in the use to which she appropriated the handsome sum
      supplied for an especial purpose by Mrs. Arlington. The lady knew no compunction in this
      respect, and she therefore devoted the thousand pounds so generously forwarded by her
      husband's late mistress, to her own wants!  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  The Italian valet had overheard the entire conversation between Lady Cecilia Harborough and
      Mr. Greenwood, which we have just described.  
  In the course of the day the whole details of that interview were communicated to Mrs.
      Arlington, who thus learnt that Lady Cecilia had intercepted the money intended for Sir Rupert
      Harborough, and had settled the forged bill without being compelled to disburse it.  
  
  CHAPTER XCVII. ANOTHER NEW YEAR'S DAY.  
  IT was the 1st of January, 1840.  
  The tide of Time rolls on with the same unvarying steadiness of motion, wearing off the
      asperities of barbarism, as the great flood of ocean smooths the sharp edges of rugged
      rocks.  
  But as the seasons glide away, vainly may we endeavour to throw a veil upon the past;—vainly
      do we lament, when Winter comes, that our Spring-dreams should be faded and gone, too
      beautiful to endure;—vainly, vainly do we pray that the waves of a Lethean sea may overwhelm
      the memories of those years when Time cast flowers from his brow, and diamonds from his
      wing!  
  Time looks down upon the world from the heights of the Pyramids of Egypt; and, as he surveys
      the myriad cities of the universe swarming with life,—marks the mighty armies of all states,
      ready to exterminate and kill,—views the navies of great powers riding over every sea,—as he
      beholds all these. Time chuckles, for he knows that they are his own!  
  For the day must come when the Pyramids themselves, the all but immortal children of
      antiquity, shall totter and fall; and Time shall triumph over even these.  
  The strongest edifices crumble into dust, and the power of the mightiest nations fritters
      into shreds, beneath the hand of Time.  
   and how varied are the climes in which they have found their graves!  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Oh, Time! what is there that can strive with thee—thou that art the expression of the
      infinite existence of God himself!  
  Alas! if Time were a spirit endowed with intellect to comprehend, and feelings to
      sympathise, how would he sorrow over the woes of that human existence, which has now occupied
      nearly sixty centuries!  
  Year after year rolls away; and yet how slowly does civilization accomplish its task of
      improving the condition of the sons and daughters of toil.  
  For in the present day, as it was in the olden time, the millions labour to support the few;
      and the few continue to monopolize the choicest fruits of the earth.  
  The rights of labour are denied; and the privileges of birth and wealth are dominant.  
  And ever, when the millions, bowed down by cares, and crushed with incessant hardships,
      raise the voice of anguish to their taskmasters, the cry is, "  Toil  !
        toil  "  
  And when the poor labourer, with the sweat standing in large drops upon his brow, points to
      his half-starved wife and little ones, and demands the increase of his wages which will enable
      him to feed them adequately, and clothe them comfortably, the only response that meets his
      ears is still, "  Toil! toil!  "  
  And when the mechanic, pale and emaciated, droops over his loom, and in a faint tone
      beseeches that his miserable pittance may be turned into a fair remuneration for that hard and
      unceasing work which builds up the fortunes of his employer, the answer to his pathetic prayer
      is, "  Toil! toil!  "  
  And when the miner, who spends his best days in the bowels of the earth, hewing the hard
      mineral in dark subterranean caves at the peril of his life, and in positions which cramp his
      limbs, contract his chest, and early prostrate his energies beyond relief,—when   he  
      exalts his voice from those hideous depths, and demands the settlement of labour's rights upon
      a just basis, the only echo to his petition is, "  Toil! toil!  "  
  Yes—it is ever "  Toil! toil!  " for the millions, while the few repose on downy
      couches, feed upon the luxuries of the land and water, and move from place to place in
      sumptuous equipages!  
    
  Another New Year's Day—commemorated with feasting by those who had no reason to repine, but
      marked as the opening of another weary epoch of care and sorrow by those who had nothing for
      which to be grateful, either to heaven or to man!  
  The first day of January, 1840, was inclement and severe. The air was piercing cold, and the
      rain fell in torrents. The streets of the great metropolis were swept by a wintery wind that
      chased the poor houseless wanderers beneath the coverings of arches and doorways, and sent the
      shivering mendicants to implore an asylum at the workhouse.  
  It was evening; and the lamps diffused but an uncertain light in the great thoroughfares.
      The courts and alleys of the poor neighbourhoods were enveloped in almost total darkness; for
      every shutter was closed, and where there were no shutters, blinds were drawn down, or rags
      were stretched across the windows, to expel the bitter cold.  
  We must now request our readers to accompany us to a district of London, which is most
      probably altogether unknown to the aristocrat, even by name, and with which many of that class
      whose occupations lead them into an intimate acquaintance with the metropolis, are by no means
      familiar.  
  Situate to the east of Bethnal Green,—bounded on the north by Bonner's Fields, on the south
      by the Mile End Road, and on the east by the Regent's Canal,—and intersected by the line of
      the Eastern Counties Railway, is an assemblage of narrow streets and filthy lanes, bearing the
      denomination of Globe Town.  
  When compared with even the worst districts of the metropolis,—when placed in contrast with
      Saint Giles's or Saffron Hill,—Globe Town still appears a sink of human misery which
      civilisation, in its progress, has forgotten to visit.  
  The majority of the streets are unpaved, rugged, and broken. The individual who traverses
      them in the summer is blinded by the dust, or disgusted by heaps of putrescent offal, the
      rotting remains of vegetables, and filth of every description, which meet the eye at short
      intervals; and, in winter, he wallows, knee-deep, in black mud and stagnant water. But even in
      the summer itself, and in the very midst of the dog-days, there are swamps of mire in many of
      the streets of Globe Town, which exhale a nauseating and sickly odour, like that of
      decomposing dead bodies.  
  In the winter time Globe Town is a complete marsh. Lying low, in the vicinity of the canal,
      and on a naturally swampy soil, the district is unhealthy in the extreme. Nor do its
      inhabitants endeavour, by any efforts of their own, to mitigate the consequences of these
      local disadvantages. They seem, for the most part, to cling with a sort of natural tenacity,
      to their rags and filth. Perhaps it is the bitterness of their poverty which makes them thus
      neglectful of the first duties of cleanliness: perhaps their pinching indigence reduces them
      to a state of despair that allows them no spirit and no heart to do any thing that may conduce
      to their comfort. Whatever be the cause, it is nevertheless a fact that, with the exception of
      one or two streets, Globe Town is a district which necessity alone could compel a person of
      cleanly habits and domestic propriety to reside in.  
  And yet Globe Town contains streets delighting in aristocratic names. There is Grosvenor
      Place in which a carriage and pair would have some trouble to turn; there is Parade Street,
      where a corporal's guard could not find space to manœuvre; there is Park Street, whose most
      gorgeous embellishment is the sign of a mangle; there is Chester Place, formed by two rows of
      miserable shops; and there are Essex Street and Digby Street, where single men may obtain
      lodgings at the rate of threepence a night.  
  How strange is this affection for fine names to distinguish horrible neighbourhoods! In the
      lowest parts of Whitechapel we find Pleasant Row, Queen Street, Flower Street, Duke Street,
      and Rose Lane. In Bethnal Green, a place inhabited by the poorest of the poor is denominated
      Silver Street; and, in the same district, a filthy thoroughfare is christened Pleasant
      Street.  
  Globe Town and its immediate vicinity abound in cemeteries. To the north there is the
      Eastern London Cemetery; and to the south there are two Jews' burial grounds, and two other
      places of sepulture. With the exception of the first-mentioned one, which has only been
      recently opened, and is a large airy space neatly planted with shrubs, those cemeteries are so
      crowded with the remains of mortality, that it is impossible to drive a spade into the ground
      without striking against human bones.  
  When you once merge from the Cambridge Road, pass the new church in Bethnal Green, and
      plunge into Globe Town, it seems as if you had left London altogether,—as if you were no
      longer within the limits of the metropolis, but had suddenly dropped from the clouds into a
      strange village strangely peopled. You encounter but few persons in the streets; and those
      whom you do meet are, for the most part, squalid, emaciated, pale, and drooping. The only
      sounds of mirth which meet your ear, emanate from the casements of the public-houses, or from
      the urchins that play half-naked in the mud. With these exceptions, Globe Town is silent,
      gloomy, and sombre.  
  The shop-windows are indicative of the poverty of the inhabitants. The butcher's shed
      displays but a few slices of liver stretched upon a board, sheep's heads of no very inviting
      appearance, and hearts, lungs, and lights, all hanging together, like a Dutch clock with its
      weights against a wall. The poor make stews of this offal. The fish-stalls present "for public
      competition," as George Robins would say, nothing but the most coarse and the cheapest
      articles—such as huge Dutch plaice, haddocks, &amp;c. In the season the itinerant venders of
      fresh-herrings and sprats drive a good trade in Globe Town. In a word, every thing in that
      district denotes poverty—poverty—nothing but pinching poverty.  
  The inhabitants of Globe Town are of two kinds; being weavers, and persons who earn their
      livelihood by working at the docks or on the canal, on the one hand; and thieves, prostitutes,
      and vagrants, on the other. When a burglar or a pickpocket finds St. Giles's, Clerkenwell, the
      Mint, or Bethnal Green too hot to hold him, he betakes himself to Globe Town, where he buries
      himself in some obscure garret until the storms that menaced him be blown over. Globe Town has
      thus acquired amongst the fraternity of rogues of all classes, the expressive denomination of
      the "Happy Valley."  
   but immediately began to ascend those steep steps. The staircase led to a
      landing, from which two doors opened into small, dirty, and dark chambers. These rooms had a
      door of communication pierced in the wall that separated them: but there were no stairs
      leading down into the lower apartments of the house. The only way of obtaining access to the
      rooms on the ground-floor, was by means of a door up an alley leading from the street, and
      running along one side of the house into a court formed by other dwellings. Thus the upper and
      lower parts of this strange building might be said to constitute two distinct tenements. The
      windows of the ground-floor rooms were darkened with shutters, at the upper part of which
      holes in the shape of hearts had been cut to admit a few straggling rays of light.  
  The rooms on the upper floor were furnished in a tolerably comfortable manner; but every
      article was wretchedly begrimed with dirt. The front apartment served as a sitting-room for
      the inmates of this strangely-built house; and the back chamber was fitted up as a
      bed-room.  
  It was evening, as we before said; and thick curtains were drawn over the two windows of the
      front room to which we have alluded. A candle with a long flaring wick, stood upon the table.
      On a good fire a kettle was just beginning to boil. The table was set out with glasses,
      bottles, sugar, lemons, pipes, and tobacco. The inmates of that room were evidently preparing
      for a carouse, while the rain beat in torrents against the windows, and the wind swept down
      the street like a hurricane.  
  But who   were   the inmates of that room?  
  We will proceed to inform our readers.  
  Lolling in an arm-chair, the covering of which was torn in many places, and spotted all over
      with grease, was a female, who in reality had scarcely numbered five-and-twenty years, but to
      whom the ravages of dissipation and evil passions gave the appearance of five-and-thirty. She
      had once been good-looking; and her features still retained the traces of beauty: but there
      was a deep blue tint beneath the eyes, which joined the dark thick brows, and thus seemed to
      inclose the orbs themselves in a dingy circle. The faded cheeks were coloured with rouge; but
      the dye had been so clumsily plastered on, that the effect could not deceive the most ignorant
      in such matters. This woman wore a faded light silk gown, cut very low in front, and
      disclosing a considerable portion of a thin and shrivelled neck. In a word, she had the air of
      being what she really was—a faded courtesan of a low order. Her proper name was Margaret
      Flathers; but her acquaintance, for brevity's sake, called her Meg; and, in addition to these
      appellations, the name of   The Rattlesnake   had been conferred upon her, from the
      circumstance that she was fond of dressing in silks or satins, which she had a habit of
      rustling as much as possible when she walked.  
  On the other side of the fire-place was seated a man of cadaverous countenance, which was
      overshadowed by a quantity of tangled black hair, and whose expression was vile and sinister
      to a degree.  
  "Half-past eight," said the woman, glancing towards a huge silver-watch which hung by a
      faded blue riband to a nail over the mantel.  
  "Yes—they can't be long now," returned her companion, who was no other than the Resurrection
      Man. "But because they're late, Meg, it's no reason why we shouldn't have a drop of blue ruin.
      The night's precious cold; and the kettle's just on the boil. Pour out the daffy, Meg."  
  The woman drew two tumblers towards her, and half filled each with gin. She then added sugar
      and lemon; and in a few moments the Resurrection Man poured the boiling element upon the
      liquor.  
  "Good, isn't it, Tony?" said the Rattlesnake.  
  "Capital, Meg. You're an excellent girl to judge of the proportions in a glass of lush."  
  "And I think, Tony," said the woman coaxingly, "that you have had no reason to complain of
      me in other respects. Twelve months all but a few days that we've been together, and I have
      done all I could to make you comfortable."  
  "And so you ought," answered the Resurrection Man. "Didn't I take you out of the street and
      make an independent lady of you? Ain't you the mistress of this crib of mine? and don't you
      live upon the fat of the land?"  
  "Very true, Tony," said the Rattlesnake. "But what would you have done without me? When that
      business took place down by the Bird-cage Walk, and you was obliged to come and hide yourself
      in the Happy Valley, you wanted some one you could rely upon to go out and buy your things,
      take care of the place, and get information whether the blue-bottles had fallen on any
      scent."  
  "All right, my girl," cried the Resurrection Man. "I   did   want such a person, and
      the moment after I escaped that night when I blew the old crib up, I went to you and told you
      just what I required. You agreed to come and live with me and I agreed to treat you well. We
      have both kept our bargain; and I am satisfied if you are."  
  "Oh! you know I am, Tony dear," exclaimed the Rattlesnake. "But sometimes you have been so
      cross and quarrelsome, that I didn't know what to make of it."  
  "And was there no excuse, Meg?" cried the Resurrection Man. "Did I not see my old mother and
      the Cracksman perish before my very eyes—and by my own hand too? But I do not accuse myself of
      having wilfully caused their death. There was no help for it. We should have all three been
      taken to Newgate, and never have come out of the jug again but twice—once to be tried, and the
      second time to be hung."  
  "Could they have proved any thing against you?" demanded the Rattlesnake.  
  "Yes, Meg," answered the Resurrection Man; "there was a stiff'un in the front room at the
      very moment when the police broke into the house. We had burked him on the preceding evening;
      and he was still hanging head downwards to the ceiling."  
  "It was much better, then, to blow the place up, as you did," observed the Rattlesnake.  
   there was nothing to do but to put a match to the farthest end of the pipe to
      blow up the whole place."  
  "Capital contrivance!" exclaimed the Rattlesnake. "Had you put up that pipe long before the
      police broke into the house?"  
  "Oh! yes—some months," answered the Resurrection Man; "and very lucky it was, too, that the
      pipe was water-tight, so that the rain had never moistened the powder in the least. Well, when
      the blue-bottles broke in, I rushed into the back-room, locked the door, leapt through the
      window, flew to the end of the pipe, tore out the plug, applied the match, and in a moment all
      was over."  
  "And for a long time even your old pals at the Boozing-ken on Saffron Hill, fancied you had
      been blown up with the rest," said the Rattlesnake.  
  "Of course they did, because the newspapers, which you always used to go and fetch me to
      read, said there was no doubt that every one of the gang in the house at the time had
      perished."  
  "And they also spoke of the way in which the police had followed you and the Cracksman to
      the house," said the Rattlesnake.  
  "Yes—and that was how I came to learn that the man who had hunted me almost to death, was
      Richard Markham," exclaimed the Resurrection Man, his countenance suddenly wearing an
      expression of such concentrated—vile—malignant rage, as to render him perfectly hideous.  
  "Now don't begin to brood over that," cried the Rattlesnake hastily; "for I am almost afraid
      of you when you get into one of those humours, dear Tony."  
  "No—I shan't give way now," said the villain: "I have prepared the means for revenge; and
      then I shall be happy. Ah! Meg, you cannot conceive how I gloated over the wretch the other
      night when I denounced him in the theatre! That man has been the means of making me stay in
      this infernal prison—for it has been nothing better—for weeks and months; he was the cause of
      the loss of my best friend, the Cracksman, and of my old mother, who was very useful in her
      way: and he prevented me from getting that young fellow into my power, who went and explored
      the Palace. When I think of all that I have suffered through this infernal Richard Markham, I
      am ready to go mad;—and I should have gone mad, too, if it hadn't been that I always thought
      the day of vengeance would come!"  
  "And my little attentions helped to console you Tony," said the Rattlesnake, in a wheedling
      manner that seemed peculiar to her.  
  "Oh! as for that, Meg, a man like me can be consoled by nothing short of revenge in such a
      case. I have told you the history of my life over and over again; and I think you must have
      learnt from it, that I am not a person to put up with an injury. I have often thought of doing
      to Markham as I did to the justice of the peace and the baronet—setting his house on fire; but
      then he might not learn who was the incendiary, or he might even think that it was an
      accident. My object is for him to know who strikes him, that he may writhe the more."  
  "And do you think that the Buffer and Moll are to be depended upon?" asked Margaret
      Flathers.  
  "To the back-bone," replied the Resurrection Man. "How could the Buffer possibly betray
         me  , when   he   was one of the gang, as the newspapers called it? Besides,
      wasn't he laid by the heels in Clerkenwell Gaol for making away with the bantling to cheat the
      Burying Society? and didn't he escape? How could he go and place himself in contact with the
      police by giving information against me? And what good would it be to him to deceive me? He
      knows that I have got plenty of tin, and can pay him well. Indeed, how has he lived in the
      Happy Valley for the last eleven months and more, since he escaped out of Clerkenwell? Haven't
      I been as good as a brother to him, and lent him money over and over again?"  
  "Very true," said the Rattlesnake. "I only spoke on your account."  
  "I shall be able to let the Buffer in for several good things, now that I am determined to
      commence an active life again," continued the Resurrection Man. "I have been idle quite long
      enough; and I am not going to remain so any more. Why, Greenwood alone ought to be as good as
      an annuity to me. He can always find employment for a skilful and daring fellow like me."  
  "And he pays like a prince, doesn't he?" demanded the Rattlesnake.  
  "Like a prince," repeated the Resurrection Man. "Five guineas the other night for just
      attending the carrying off of the young actress. That is the way to make money, Meg."  
  "And you have got plenty, Tony, I know?" said the woman, in a tone more than half
      interrogatively, and only partially expressing a conviction.  
  "What's that to you?" cried the Resurrection Man, brutally; at the same time eyeing his
      mistress in a somewhat suspicious manner.  
  "Oh! only because you needn't have any secrets from me, Tony," returned the Rattlesnake,
      affecting a tone of indifference. "You have been out every night lately—and only for a short
      time—"  
  "Now I tell you what it is, Meg," exclaimed Tidkins, striking his fist upon the table, "you
      have asked me about my money a great many times lately; and I tell you very candidly, I don't
      like it. It looks suspicious; but, by heavens! if you attempt to play me false—"  
  "Why should you say that, Tony? Have I not given you every proof of fidelity?"  
  "Yes—you have; or else I should have known what to do in a very few moments. But why do you
      bother yourself about the money that I have got? It is very little, I can tell you; but where
      it is, it's safe enough; and if I ever catch you attempting to follow me or spy upon me when I
      go into the rooms down stairs, I'll make you repent it."  
  "Now, Tony dear, don't put yourself into a passion," said the Rattlesnake, turning pale, and
      assuming her usual wheedling tone: "I didn't mean to annoy you. All that I wanted to know was
      whether there was a chance of running short or not."  
  "Don't frighten yourself, Meg," returned the Resurrection Man. "Whenever I run low, I know
      how to get more. And now, that we mayn't have to talk upon this subject again, recollect once
      for all that I won't have you prying into any thing that I choose to keep to myself. You know
      that I am not a man to be trifled with; and if any one was to betray me—I don't mean to say
      that you ever had such an idea—I only mean you to understand that if anybody
        did  —"  
  "Well—what?" said the Rattlesnake in a tone of alarm.  
  "I would not be taken alive," added the Resurrection Man; "and those who came to take me at
      all, would probably travel the same road that the police, the Cracksman, and the Mummy have
      gone already."  
   to say that this house is provided with a pipe like the one—"  
  "I don't mean to say any thing at all about it, one way or another," interrupted the
      Resurrection Man coolly. "All I want you to do is to remain quiet—attend to my wishes—keep a
      close tongue in your head—and have no eyes for any thing that I don't tell you to look at,—and
      then we shall go on as pleasant as before. Otherwise—"  
  At this moment a knock at the street door was heard.  
  The Rattlesnake hastened to answer the summons, and returned accompanied by the Buffer and
      his wife.  
  
  CHAPTER XCVIII. DARK PLOTS AND SCHEMES.  
  THE Buffer was one of the most unmitigated villains that ever disgraced the name of man.
      There was no species of crime with which he was not familiar; and he had a suitable helpmate
      in his wife, who was the sister of Dick Flairer—a character that disappeared from the stage of
      life in the early part of this history.  
  In person, the Buffer was slight, short, and rather well-made,—extremely active, and endowed
      with great physical power. His countenance was by no means an index to his mind; for it was
      inexpressive, stolid, and vacant.  
  His wife was a woman of about five-and-twenty, being probably ten years younger than her
      husband. She was not precisely ugly; but her countenance—the very reverse of that of the
      Buffer—was so indicative of every evil passion that can possibly disgrace womanhood, as to be
      almost repulsive.  
  The two new-comers seated themselves near the fire, for their clothes were dripping with the
      rain, which continued to pour in torrents. The warmth of the apartment and a couple of glasses
      of smoking grog soon, however, put them into good humour and made them comfortable; and the
      Resurrection Man then proposed that they should "proceed to business."  
  "In the first place, Jack," said the Resurrection Man, addressing himself to the Buffer,
      "what news about Markham?"  
  "He will attend to the appointment," was the answer.  
  "He will?" exclaimed the Resurrection Man, as if the news were almost too good to be true:
      "you are sure?"  
  "As sure as I am that I've got this here glass in my mawley," said the Buffer.  
  "To-morrow night?"  
  "To-morrow night he'll meet his brother at Twig Folly," answered the Buffer, with a
      laugh.  
  "Tell me all that took place," cried the Resurrection Man; "and then I shall be able to
      judge for myself."  
  "As you told me," began the Buffer, "I made myself particklerly clean and tidy, and went up
      to Holloway this morning at about eleven o'clock. I knocked at the door of the swell's crib;
      and an old butler-like looking feller, with a port-wine face, and a white napkin under his
      arm, come and opened it. He asked me what my business was. I said I wanted to speak to Mr.
      Markham in private. He asked me to walk in; and he showed me into a library kind of a place,
      where I see a good-looking young feller sitting reading. He was very pale, and seemed as if
      he'd been ill."  
  "Fretting about that business at the theatre, no doubt," observed the Resurrection Man.  
  "What business?" cried the Buffer.  
  "No matter—go on."  
  "Well—so I went into this library and see Mr. Markham. The old servant left us alone
      together. 'What do you want with me, my good man?' says Markham in a very pleasant tone of
      voice.—'I have summut exceeding partickler to say to you, sir,' says I.—'Well, what is it?' he
      asks—'Have you heerd from your brother lately, sir?' says I, throwing out the feeler you put
      me up to. If so be he had said he had, and I saw that he really knew where he was, and every
      thing about him, I should have invented some excuse, and walked myself off; but there was no
      need of that; for the moment I mentioned his brother, he was quite astonished.—'My brother!'
      he says in a wery excited tone: 'many years has elapsed since I heerd from him. Do you know
      what has becomed on him?'—'Perhaps I knows a trifle about him, sir,' says I; 'and that is wery
      trifling indeed. In a word,' I says, 'he wants to see you.'—'He wants to see me!' cries my
      gentleman: 'then why doesn't he come to me? But where is he? tell me, that I may fly to
      him.'—So then I says, 'The fact of the matter is this, sir; your brother has got his-self into
      a bit of a scrape, and don't dare show. He's living down quite in the east of London, close by
      the Regent's Canal; and he has sent me to say that if so be you'll meet him to-morrow night at
      ten o'clock in Twig Folly, he'll be there.'—Then Mr. Markham cries out, 'But why can I not go
      to him now? If he is in distress or difficulty, the sooner he sees me the better.'—'Softly,
      sir,' says I. 'All I know of the matter is this, that I'm a honest man as airns his livelihood
      by running on messages and doing odd jobs. A gentleman meets me on the bank of the canal,
      close by Twig Folly, very early this morning and says, '  Do you want to airn five
       shillings?  ' Of course I says '  Yes  .'—'  Then,  ' says the gentleman,
       '  go up to Markham Place without delay, and ask to see Mr. Markham. He lives at Holloway.
       Tell him that you come from his brother, who is in trouble, and can't go to him; but that his
       brother will meet him to-morrow night at ten o'clock on the banks of the canal, near Twig
       Folly. And,' says the gentleman, 'if he should ask you for a token that you're tellin' the
       truth, say that this appointment must be kept instead of the one on the top of the hill where
       two ash trees stand planted  .'—Well, the moment I tells Mr. Markham all this, he begins
      to blubber, and then to laugh, and to dance about the room, crying, 'Oh! my dear—dear brother,
      shall I then embrace you so soon again?' and such-like nonsense. Then he gives me half a
      sovereign his-self, and sends me into the kitchen, where the cook makes me eat and drink till
      I was well-nigh ready to bust. The old butler was rung for; and I've no doubt that his master
      told him the good news, for when he come back into the kitchen, he treated me with the
      greatest civility, but asked me a lot of questions about   Master Eugene  , as he called
      him. I satisfied him in all ways; and at last I rises, takes my leave of the servants, and
      comes off."  
  "Well done!" cried the Resurrection Man, whose cadaverous countenance wore an expression of
      superlative satisfaction. "And you do not think he entertained the least suspicion?"  
  "Not a atom," returned the Buffer.  
  "Nor the old butler?" asked the Resurrection Man.  
   Tony; how come you to know that anythink about this young feller's brother would
      produce such a powerful excitement?"  
  "Have I not before told you that this Richard Markham was a fellow-prisoner with me in
      Newgate some four years and more ago? Well, I often overheard him talking about his affairs to
      another man that was also there, and whose name was Armstrong. Markham and this Armstrong were
      very thick together; and Markham spoke quite openly to him about his family matters, his
      brother, and one thing or another. That's the way I came to hear of the strange appointment
      made between the two brothers."  
  "Well, there's no doubt that the fish has bit and can be hooked to-morrow night," said the
      Buffer.  
  "Yes—he is within my reach—and now I shall be revenged," exclaimed the Resurrection Man,
      grinding his teeth together. "I will tell you my plans in this respect presently," he added.
      "Let us now talk about the old man that your wife nurses."  
  "Or   did   nurse, rather," cried Moll, with a coarse laugh.  
  Both the Resurrection Man and Margaret Flathers turned a glance of inquiry and surprise upon
      the Buffer's wife.  
  "The old fellow's dead," she added, after a moment's pause.  
  "Dead already!" exclaimed Tidkins.  
  "Just as I tell you," answered Moll. "He seemed very sinking and low this morning; and so I
      was more attentive to him than ever."  
  "But the money?" said the Resurrection Man.  
  "All a dream on her part," cried the Buffer, sulkily, pointing towards his wife.  
  "Now don't you go for to throw all the blame on me, Jack," retorted the woman; "for you know
      as well as I do that you was as sanguine as me. And who wouldn't have taken him for an old
      miser? Here you and me," she continued, addressing herself to her husband, "go to hire a
      lodging in a home in Smart Street, about three months ago, and we find out that there's an old
      chap living overhead, on the first floor, who had been there three months before that time,
      and had always lived in the same regular, quiet way—never going out except after dusk, doing
      nothing to earn his bread, paying his way, and owing nobody a penny. Then he was dressed in
      clothes that wasn't worth sixpence, and yet he had gold to buy others if he chose, because he
      used to change a sovereign every week, when he paid his rent. Well, all these things put
      together, made me think he was a miser, and had a store somewhere or another; and when I said
      to you——"  
  "I know what you said, fast enough," interrupted the Buffer, sulkily: "what's the use of
      telling us all this over again?  
  "Just to show that if I was deceived, you was too. But it's always the way with you: when
      any thing turns out wrong, you throw the blame on me. Didn't you say to me, when the old
      fellow was took ill a month ago: '  Moll  ,' says you, '  go and offer your services to
       nurse the old gentleman; and may be if he dies he'll leave you something; or at all events
       you may worm out of him the secret of where he keeps his money, and we can get hold of it all
       the same  .' That's what you said—and so I did go and nurse the old man; and he seemed
      very grateful, for at last he began to like me almost as much as he did his snuff-box—and
      that's saying a great deal, considering the quantity of snuff he used to take, and the good it
      seemed to do him when he was low and melancholy."  
  "Well—what's the use of you and the Buffer wrangling?" cried the Resurrection Man. "Tell us
      all about the old fellow's death."  
  "As I was saying just now," continued Moll, "the old gentleman was took wery bad this
      morning soon after Jack left to go up to Holloway; and the landlady, Mrs. Smith, insisted on
      sending for a doctor. The old gentleman shook his head, when he heard Mrs. Smith say so, and
      seemed wery, much annoyed at the idea of having a medical visit. But Mrs. Smith was positive,
      for she said that she had lost her husband and been left a lone widder through not having a
      doctor in time to him when he was ill. Well, a doctor   was   sent for, and he said that
      the old gentleman was very bad indeed. He asked me and Mrs. Smith what his name was, and
      whether he'd any relations, as they ought to be sent for; but Mrs. Smith said that she never
      knowed his name at all, and as for relations no one never come to see him and he never went to
      see no one his-self. The doctors orders him to have mustard poultices put to his feet; but it
      wasn't of no use, for the old fellow gives a last gasp and dies at twenty minutes past two
      this blessed afternoon."  
  "Well," said the Resurrection Man; "and then, I suppose, you had a rummage in his
      boxes?"  
  "Boxes, indeed!" cried Moll, with an indignant toss of her head. "Why, when he first come to
      the house, Mrs. Smith says that all he had was a bundle tied up in a blue cotton pocket
      handkercher—a couple of shirts, and a few pair of stockings, or so. She didn't like to take
      him in, she says; but he offered to pay a month's rent in advance; and so she was
      satisfied."  
  "Then you found nothing at all?" exclaimed the Rattlesnake.  
  "Not much," returned Moll. "The moment we saw he was dead, we began to search all over the
      room, to see what he had left behind him. For a long time we could find nothing but a dirty
      shirt, two pair of stockings, and a jar of snuff; and yet Mrs. Smith said she knew there must
      be money, for she had heard him counting his gold one day before he was took ill. Besides,
      during his illness, whenever money was wanted to get any thing for him, he never gave it at
      first, but sent me or Mrs. Smith out of the room with some excuse; and when we went back, he
      always had the money in his hand. Well, me and Mrs. Smith searched and searched away; and at
      last Mrs. Smith bethinks herself of looking behind the bed. We moved the bed away from the
      wall as well as we could, for the dead body lying upon it made it precious heavy; and then we
      saw that a hole had been made down in the comer of the room. Mrs. Smith puts in her finger,
      and draws out an old greasy silk purse. I heard the gold chink; but I saw that the purse was
      not over heavy. '  Well  ,' says Mrs. Smith, '  I'm glad I've got a witness of what the
       poor gentleman left behind him, or else I might get into trouble some day or another, if any
       inquiries should be made  .' So she pours out the gold into her hand, and counts
      thirty-nine sovereigns."  
  "And that was all?" cried the Resurrection Man.  
  "Every farthing," replied the Buffer's wife. "Well, I asked Mrs Smith what she intended to
      do with it; and she says, '  I shall bury the poor old gentleman decently: that will be five
       pounds. Then there is a pound for the doctor, as I must get him to follow the funeral; and
       here is two pounds for you for your attention to the old gentleman in his illness   her what she is going to do with the rest, because there was still thirty-one
      pounds left."  
  "And what did she say to that?" demanded the Rattlesnake.  
  "She began a long ditty about her being an honest woman, though a poor one, and that dead
      man's gold would only bring ill-luck into her house."  
  "The old fool!" cried the Resurrection Man.  
  "And then she said she should ask the parson, when she had buried the old man, what she
      ought to do with the thirty-one pounds."  
  "Why didn't you propose to split it between you, and hold your tongues?" asked the
      Resurrection Man.  
  "So I did," answered Moll; "and what do you think the old fool said? She up and told me that
      she always thought that me and my husband was not the most respectablest of characters, and
      she now felt convinced of it."  
  "Well, we must have those thirty-one yellow boys, old fellow," said the Resurrection Man to
      the Buffer.  
  "Yea—if we can get them," answered the latter; "and I know of no way to do it but to cut the
      old woman's throat."  
  "No—that won't do," ejaculated the Resurrection Man. "If the old woman disappeared suddenly,
      suspicion would be sure to fall on you; and the whole Happy Valley would be up in arms. Then
      the blue-bottles might find a trace to this crib here; and we should all get into
      trouble."  
  "But if you mean to put the kyebosh upon young Markham to-morrow night," said the Buffer,
      "won't that raise a devil of a dust in the neighbourhood?"  
  "Markham disappears from Holloway, which is a long way from the Happy Valley," replied the
      Resurrection Man.  
  "And the old butler, who is certain to know that the appointment was made for Twig Folly,"
      persisted the Buffer, "won't he give information that will raise the whole Valley in arms, as
      you call it?"  
  "No such thing," said the Resurrection Man. "Markham falls into the canal accidentally, and
      is drowned. There's no mark of violence on his body, and his watch and money are safe about
      his person. Now do you understand me?"  
  "I understand that if you mean me to jump into the canal and help to hold him in it till
      he's drowned, you're deucedly out in your reckoning, for I ain't going to risk drowning
      myself, 'cause I can't swim better than a stone."  
  "You need not set foot in the water," said the Resurrection Man, somewhat impatiently. "But
      I suppose you could hold him by the heels fast enough upon the bank?"  
  "Oh! yes—I don't mind   that  ," replied the Buffer: "but how shall we get the
      thirty-one couters from this old fool of a landlady, unless we use violence?"  
  The Resurrection Man leant his head upon his hand, his elbow being supported by the table,
      and reflected profoundly for some moments.  
  So high an opinion did the other villain and the two women entertain of the ingenuity,
      craft, and cunning of the Resurrection Man, that they observed a solemn silence while he was
      thus occupied in meditation,—as if they were afraid of interrupting a current of ideas which,
      they hoped, would lead to some scheme beneficial to them all.  
  Suddenly the Resurrection Man raised his head, and, turning towards the Buffer's wife, said,
      "Do you know whether the old woman has spoken to any one yet about the funeral?"  
  "She said she should let it be till to-morrow morning, because the weather was so awful bad
      this afternoon."  
  "Excellent!" ejaculated the Resurrection Man. "Now, Moll, do you put on your bonnet, take
      the large cotton umbrella there, and go and do what I tell you without delay."  
  The woman rose to put on her bonnet and cloak, which she had laid aside upon first entering
      the room; and the Resurrection Man wrote a hurried note. Having folded, wafered, and addressed
      it, he handed it to the Buffer's wife, saying, "Go down as fast as your legs will carry you to
      Banks, the undertaker, in Globe Lane, and ask to see him. Give him this; but mind and deliver
      it into his hand only. If he is not at home, wait till he comes in."  
  The woman took the note, and departed on the mysterious mission entrusted to her.  
  "What's in the wind now?" demanded the Buffer, as soon as the door had closed behind his
      wife.  
  "You shall see," replied the Resurrection Man. "Now let us fill our glasses, and blow a
      cloud till Moll comes back."  
  The Rattlesnake mixed fresh supplies of grog; and the two men lighted their pipes.  
  "How the rain does beat down," observed the Buffer, after a pause.  
  "And the wind sweeps along like a hurricane," said the Resurrection Man. "By the by, this is
      New Year's Day. What different weather it is from what it was last New Year's Day."  
  "Do you recollect what sort of weather it was last New Year's Day?" demanded the Buffer.  
  "Perfectly well," answered the Resurrection Man; "because it was on that evening that I and
      the poor Cracksman helped young Holford over the Palace wall."  
  "And that venture turned out no go, didn't it?" asked the Buffer.  
  "It failed because the young scamp either turned funky or played us false, I never could
      make out which. But I have an account to settle with him too; and the first time I meet him
      I'll teach him what it is to humbug a man like me."  
  There was a pause, during which the two men smoked their pipes with all the calmness of
      individuals engaged in virtuous and innocent meditation; and the Rattlesnake added fresh fuel
      to the fire, the flames of which roared cheerfully up the chimney.  
  "Come, sing as a song, Meg," cried the Buffer, breaking a silence which had lasted several
      minutes.  
  "I have got a cold, and can't sing," replied the woman.  
  "Well, then, Tony," said the Buffer, "tell us some of your adventures. They'll amuse us till
      Moll comes back."  
  "I am quite tired of telling the same things over and over again," answered the Resurrection
      Man. "We've never heard you practise in that line yet; so the sooner you begin the better.
      Come, tell us your history."  
  "There isn't much to tell," said the Buffer, refilling his pipe; "but such as it is, you're
      welcome to it."  
    
  
  CHAPTER XCIX. THE BUFFER'S HISTORY.  
  "You are well aware that my name is really John Wicks, although very few of my pals know me
      by any other title than the Buffer.  
  "My father and mother kept a coal and potatoe shed in Great Suffolk Street, Borough. I was
      their only child; and as they were very fond of me, they would not let me be bothered and
      annoyed with learning. For decency's sake, however, they made me go to the Sunday-school, and
      there I just learnt to read, and that's all.  
  "When I was twelve years old, I began to carry out small quantities of coals and potatoes to
      the customers. We used to supply a great many of the prisoners in the Bench; and whenever I
      went into that place, I generally managed to have a game of marbles, and sometimes rackets,
      with the young blackguards that lurked about the prison to pick up the racket balls, run on
      messages, and so on. At length I got to play for money; and as I generally lost, I had to take
      the money which I received from the customers to pay my little gambling debts. I was obliged
      to tell my father and mother all kinds of falsehoods to account for the disappearance of the
      money. Sometimes I said that I had lost a few halfpence; then I declared that a beggar in the
      street had snatched a sixpence out of my hand, and ran away; or else I swore that the
      customers had not paid me. This last excuse led to serious misunderstandings; for sometimes my
      father went himself to collect the debts owing to him; and then, when the prisoners declared
      they had paid me, I stuck out that it was false; and my father called them rogues and
      swindlers. At length, he began seriously to suspect that his son was robbing him; and one day
      he found it out in a manner which I could not deny. I was then fourteen, and was pretty well
      hardened, I can tell you. So I turned round, and told my father that he had brought it all on
      himself, because he had instructed me how to cheat the customers in weight and measure, and
      had therefore brought me up in wrong principles.  
  "You must understand that the usual mode of doing business in coal-sheds is this: all the
      weights only weigh one half of what they are represented to weigh. For instance, the one which
      is used as the fifty pound weight is hollow, and is, therefore, made as large in outward
      appearance as the real fifty pound weight; whereas, in consequence of being hollow, it
      actually only weighs twenty-five pounds. This is the case with all the weights; the pound
      weight really weighs only half a pound, and so on. You may ask why the weights are thus
      exactly one half less than they are represented to be,—neither more nor less than one half. I
      will tell you: when the leet jury comes round and points, for instance, to the weight used for
      fifty pounds, the answer is, 'Oh, that is the twenty-five pound weight;' and, upon being
      tested, the assertion is found to be correct. So there is never any danger of being hauled
      over the coals by the leet jury; but if the weights were each an odd number of ounces or
      pounds short, they could not be passed off to the jury as weights of a particular standard,
      and then the warehouseman would get into a scrape. It is just the same with the measures. The
      bushel contains a false bottom, and is really half a bushel; and when the leet jury calls, it
      is stated to be the half bushel measure, whereas to customers it is passed off as the bushel.
      This will also account to you for the way in which costermongers in the streets are able to
      sell fruit (cherries particularly) and peas, in the season, for just one half of the price at
      which they can be bought at respectable dealers. The poor dupe who gives twopence for   a
       pound   of cherries of a costermonger in the street, only obtains half a pound; and the
      housewife who thinks that she can save a hundred per cent. by buying her peas in the same way,
      only gets half a peck instead of a peck.  
  "My father had thirty barrows, which he let out to the costermongers at the rate of eighteen
      pence a day each; and some of those men could clear eight or ten shillings a day by their
      traffic. But they are so addicted to drinking that they spend all they get; and in the winter
      season they starve. Now and then a costermonger would disappear with the barrow, for the loan
      of which my father never required any security, as the poor souls had none to give; and then
      my father offered a reward for the apprehension of the absentee. He was generally caught, and
      my father always had him taken before the magistrate and punished—as a warning, he said, to
      the rest. I used to think he behaved very harshly in this respect, as the poor wretch whom he
      thus got sent to the treadmill had most probably paid for the barrow over and over again.  
  "But to return to my story. When my father discovered that I had robbed him, I threw in his
      teeth the use he made of false weights and measures. He was alarmed at this, because I
      threatened to inform the neighbours; and so he did not give me the thrashing which he had at
      first promised. He, however, resolved to send me away from home, and in the course of a few
      days got me a place at a friend's of his, who kept a sweet-stuff shop, in Friar Street,
      Blackfriars. There I was initiated into all the mysteries of that trade. I found that the
      white-sugar articles were all largely adulterated with plaster of Paris; and that immediately
      accounted to me for the pernicious—often fatal—effects produced by this kind of trash upon
      children. If parents, who really care for their children, were only commonly prudent, they
      would never allow them to eat any white-sugar sweet-stuff at all. Then I discovered that the
      articles passed off as burnt almonds, really contained the kernels of fruits; for the
      kitchen-maids in wealthy families and hotels collect and sell the stones of the peaches,
      apricots, and nectarines, eaten at the dinner-tables of their masters, as regularly as cooks
      dispose of their bones and grease. In fact, the most deleterious ingredients enter into the
      composition of sweet-stuff. The sugar-refiners sell all their scum to the sweet-stuff makers;
      and this scum is composed of the lime, alum, bullock's blood, charcoal, acetate of soda, and
      other things used for fining sugar. Oxide of lead is also mixed with the small proportions of
      sugar used in making sweet-stuff; and thus you may perceive what filthy and poisonous
      substances are given to children in the shape of sugar-plums. I hope that I do not weary you
      with this description; and if you should be surprised that I can now recollect the chemical
      names of the ingredients used, I must tell you that I went so often to the sugar-refiners, and
      to the chemists, for my master, that I soon became familiar with every thing at all relating
      to the business.  
   every opportunity of gratifying my inclination in this respect. I frequented a
      notorious public-house in Suffolk Street, where gaming was carried on to a great extent; and
      my ill-luck seemed unvaried. My mother did all she could to check the progress of this
      infatuation; but it was invincible; and in the course of three years I had completely ruined
      both my mother and myself. An execution was put into the house for rent, and my mother died of
      a broken heart. I shed a few tears, and then looked round me for some occupation.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "One of the persons who frequented the public-house in Suffolk Street offered to recommend
      me to a friend of his, who kept an auction-room in the City. I gladly accepted the proposal,
      and was engaged as 'a bidder,' at that establishment. I will tell you what I had to do: the
      auction was carried on in an open warehouse in a great thoroughfare. The articles put up for
      sale were all of the most worthless description—razors, made (like Peter Pindar's) to sell,
      and not to cut; pen-knives, that would inflict no damage upon a piece of wood; decanters, that
      would scarcely resist the pressure of the most delicate lady's hand; candlesticks, made of a
      metal that would melt if held too close to the fire; urns, that sprang a leak the moment hot
      water was poured into them; watches, that were never known to go beyond the first
      four-and-twenty hours; scissors, that would not sever a thread; snuffers, that merely crushed
      without diminishing the wick; teapots, made of polished pewter, and warranted as silver; in a
      word, every species of domestic rubbish of this kind, occupied the counters and tables in the
      auction-room. Myself and three others were hired as bidders. Our duty was to offer a price for
      every article put up, and buy it in if it appeared likely to go to a stranger at too low a
      price—although, indeed, few prices were too low for the articles on which they were put. Then,
      when a greenhorn entered the mart, we were to puff off the articles amongst ourselves in his
      hearing—never talking   to   him, but talking   at   in extreme cases, knock them down, and then give them into custody for creating
      a disturbance.  
  "In this situation I remained for three years. The master was very good to us, and gave us a
      present every time he effected large sales by our means. One afternoon an elderly gentleman
      entered the mart, and stood bidding for some cut decanters. They had been invoiced to the
      proprietor of the establishment for six shillings, and the lowest price at which they were to
      be knocked down was two pounds ten. The bidding was rather slow; and I retreated a pace or two
      behind the old gentleman, to avoid having the appearance of being anxious to make myself
      conspicuous. In that position I observed the corner of a red pocket-book peeping out of his
      coat tail. I glanced around: no one noticed me; and in a moment I abstracted the inviting
      object. This was the first theft I ever committed; and bad as I already was, the moment I had
      that pocket-book safe in my possession, I would have given the world for it to have been back
      again in its former place. The deed was however done; and I evaporated from the auction mart
      with the rapidity of thought.  
  "I was not such an idiot as to return to my lodgings; but I hastened into the vicinity of
      Smithfield, and entered a public-house in Chick Lane. The parlour—a little slip, with a single
      window looking upon the street—was fortunately empty; and I immediately examined my treasure.
      And true enough it was a treasure! It contained eight hundred pounds in Bank of England notes,
      together with bills of exchange to the amount of three thousand. There were also letters and
      cards of address, which showed me who the old gentleman was. He was a rich landholder in the
      county of Hants. I enclosed the bills of exchange and the letters in a sheet of paper, and
      returned them through the post to their owner. The Bank notes I kept. But I was now at a loss
      how to act; for I fancied that if the notes had been stopped, there would be danger in
      attempting to pass them. After I had put the letter in the post, I returned to the
      public-house in Chick Lane, and meditated upon the best course to pursue. While I was sitting
      in the parlour, over a glass of brandy-and-water, pondering upon this very difficult matter, a
      man entered, sate down, called for some liquor, and got into conversation with me. By degrees
      we grew confidential; and he let me know that he was a member of the swell-mob. I opened my
      heart to him; and he immediately offered to take me to a place where I could change my
      notes.  
  "I thankfully accepted his proposal; and he led me into Field Lane. There he entered a shop
      where they sold salt fish, herrings, haddocks, and oysters. He asked a dirty-looking girl if
      Israel Moses was at home; and, receiving an affirmative answer, led the way up a narrow, dark,
      and dirty staircase, to a room where an old Jew, with a face almost completely concealed by
      grisly white hair, was sitting at a table covered with papers. My guide immediately
      communicated to him the object of my visit; and the old Jew questioned me closely relative to
      the way in which I had obtained the Bank notes. My companion advised me to tell him the exact
      truth, which I did; and the Jew then offered me six hundred pounds in gold for my eight
      hundred pounds' worth of notes. He explained to me that he should be compelled to send them to
      his agents in Paris, Hamburgh, and Amsterdam, to get rid of them; and that he could therefore
      afford to give me no more. I accepted his proposal, received the gold, and departed,
      accompanied by my new friend, who was no other than Dick Flairer.  
  "I made him a handsome present for his counsel and assistance, and was about to part from
      him, when he told me that I had better take care of myself for a few days until the hue and
      cry concerning the pocket-book should be over. He asked me to accompany him to his lodgings in
      Castle Street, Saffron Hill. I agreed; and there I first met his sister Mary. In the evening
      Dick went out, to ascertain, as he said, 'how the wind blew.' He came back at a late hour, and
      brought me a copy of a hand-bill that had been printed and circulated, and which gave not only
      a full description of the robbery, but also a most painfully accurate account of my person.
      Dick assured me that I was not safe in his lodgings, as he himself was a suspicious character
      in the neighbourhood; and he advised me to hide myself in a certain house which he knew in
      Chick Lane. I followed his advice, and proceeded to the Old House, where I lay concealed in
      that horrid dungeon under ground for a mortal fortnight. Mary brought me my food every other
      day, and gave me information of what was going on outside. She told me that the newspapers had
      published an account of the return of the bills of exchange and letters by post; and that the
      same organs stated that the old gentleman who had been robbed was unwilling to proceed any
      farther on that very account. At length Dick came himself, and assured me that I might leave
      the dungeon; but that it would be better for me to remain quiet in some snug place for a few
      weeks. I proposed to him a trip into the country; he agreed; and Mary accompanied us.  
  "We went down to Canterbury, and took lodgings on the Herne Bay road, close by the barracks.
      Dick and I used to visit all the neighbouring towns, and see what we could pick up; but we led
      a jovial life, spending much more than we got, and thus making desperate inroads into my
      funds. My old habits of gambling returned; and the gold which I had received from the Jew was
      disappearing very rapidly. We had left London for upwards of eight months, when we thought of
      returning to our old haunts. Mary seemed quite averse to the proposal, and was most anxious to
      remain a short time longer where she was. To this Dick agreed; and he and I came up to town.
      We went to the Boozing-ken on Saffron Hill, and there took up our quarters. Dick introduced me
      to Bill Bolter; and as it happened that our funds were all low, we resolved upon adopting some
      means to replenish our purses. Happening to take up the   Times  , I saw an
      advertisement, according to which a wealthy jeweller and goldsmith in the Strand required a
      porter. I made a remark which led Dick Flairer to observe, that if I chose to take the
      situation, he could get me a reference, as he knew one of the largest linen-drapers in Norton
      Folgate, who was in the habit of buying stolen goods of the cracksmen of Dick's gang, and
      would not dare refuse to perform the part required. The plan was settled: I applied for the
      situation, gave the reference, and in two days entered the service of the rich goldsmith. In
      less than a fortnight I had obtained all the information I required; and stepping out one
      evening, I hastened to the boozing-ken, where I met the pals, and appointed the following
      night for the enterprise. I then returned to my master's residence.  
   portable articles; in which occupation we were engaged when a cry of '  Fire,
       fire!  ' was heard in the street outside; and almost at the same moment a tremendous
      knocking at the front door began. For an instant we were paralysed; but the noise of steps
      descending the stairs hurried us into action; and, opening the doors, we darted from the house
      with the speed of wild animals, leaving all the booty behind us. The cry of '  Fire!  '
      was instantly succeeded by that of '  Thieves!  ' and several persons began to pursue us
      hotly. We gained Wellington Street, and hastened towards Waterloo Bridge, intending to get
      into the Borough with the least possible delay. On we went—through the great gate, without
      waiting to pay the toll at the entrance of the footway—the pursuers gaining upon us. Suddenly
      I recollected that the cornice along the outside of the parapet was very wide; and without
      hesitating a moment I sprang over the parapet, alighted on the cornice, and only saved myself
      from falling into the river by catching hold of the gas-pipe which runs along the outer side
      of the bridge. Scarcely had I thus accomplished a most dangerous feat, when I distinctly saw a
      man, a few yards a-head, mount the parapet, and precipitate himself into the river. Then arose
      the sounds of voices on the bridge, crying, '  He is over!  ' '  He has leaped
      in!  ' '  He will be drowned.  ' '  They have all three escaped.  ' '  But
       where the devil could the other two have got to?  ' and such-like exclamations, which
      convinced me that my companions were safe. There I remained, a prey to a thousand painful
      reflections and horrid ideas, for upwards of an hour; till at length I grew so dizzy that I
      was every moment on the point of falling into the river. The bridge was now completely silent;
      and I ventured to leave my hiding-place. I passed over the bridge to the Surrey side, without
      molestation, and proceeded by a circuitous route to the Old House in Chick Lane, where, to my
      astonishment, I found Bill Bolter. I then learnt that it was Dick Flairer who had leapt into
      the river, and was no doubt drowned; and that Bolter had only escaped by concealing himself in
      the deep shade of one of the recesses of the bridge, when totally overcome by fatigue, until
      his pursuers had passed, when he retraced his steps, and quietly gained the Strand.  
  "We were greatly grieved to think that our enterprise in the jeweller's house should have
      failed, and that we had lost so excellent a fellow as Flairer; but in the midst of our
      lamentations, the door opened and Dick himself entered the room. Pale, dripping, and
      exhausted, he fell upon a seat, and would most probably have fainted—if not died—had we not
      forced some brandy down his throat. He then revived; and, having changed his clothes, was soon
      completely recovered from the effects of his bath, and the desperate exertions he had made to
      swim to a wharf communicating with the Commercial Road.  
  "We staid for the remainder of the night at the Old House; and on the following morning Dick
      Flairer went up to the boozing-ken, where he procured a newspaper. He then returned to us; and
      we perceived by the journal that the curtains of the bed-room which I had occupied at the
      jeweller's house had caught fire, and created the alarms which had interrupted us in the midst
      of our employment in the shop. I moreover ascertained that I was of course suspected of having
      admitted thieves into the premises, and that a reward was offered for my apprehension. I was
      accordingly compelled to remain concealed for some weeks in the Old House, while Bolter and
      Flairer, being unsuspected, were enabled to go abroad. I did not upon this occasion conceal
      myself in the dungeon of the Old House, for I could not bear the solitude of that living tomb;
      and as Bolter and Flairer were constantly visiting me, the time did not hang so very heavily
      on my hands. At length I left the Old House, and I and Dick returned to Canterbury.  
  "When we arrived there, after an absence of two months, we made a most unpleasant
      discovery—unpleasant to Dick as the brother, and to me who was enamoured of Mary. She was in a
      way to become a mother; her situation was too palpable to be concealed. Dick flew into a most
      ungovernable rage; and Mary tried to deny it. But the fact was glaring, and she was obliged to
      confess that she had been seduced by a serjeant of the regiment stationed at Canterbury. Her
      attachment to that man, and the hope that he would do her justice, were the reasons that had
      induced her to remain at Canterbury, when we went to London. The serjeant had recently treated
      her with neglect and indifference, and she longed for revenge. Dick and I swore that she
      should have it. She told us that the serjeant was very fond of angling, and that every morning
      early he indulged in his favourite sport in the river Stour, which flowed close by the
      barracks.  
  "Next morning Dick and I went down to the river, and there we saw the serjeant preparing his
      tackle. From the description we had received of him, we knew him to be the man we wanted; but
      there was a large water-mill close by, and we dared not attack him in a spot that was so
      overlooked. We accordingly returned home, and consulted together how we should proceed. At
      length we resolved that Mary should endeavour to get him to grant her an interview on the
      banks of the river. She sent him a note, saying that she was to leave Canterbury in a few
      days, and that she wished to see him once more. She concluded by begging him to meet her that
      evening or the next between nine and ten o'clock, close by the bridge of Kingsford's
      water-mill. He consented, and appointed the evening of the next day for the interview.  
  "The hour drew nigh, and Mary went to the place agreed upon. Dick and I followed her at a
      little distance. The night was dark; it was in the month of April; and the air was very cold.
      As we drew near the bridge as noiselessly as we could, we distinguished the forms of two
      persons standing upon the bridge, and leaning in earnest conversation upon the low railing
      that overhung the huge wheel which was revolving beneath, the torrent pouring over it through
      the sluices of the dam upon the top of which the bridge stood. We advanced closer; and could
      then perceive that the two forms were those of Mary and her seducer. We proceeded to the
      bridge. When we reached the middle, Dick went up to the serjeant, and said, '  This is my
       sister; do you mean to do her justice?  '—'  No,  ' cried Mary; '  he has just told
       me that I need have no hope in that respect  .' '  Then there is nothing more to be
       said,  ' exclaimed Dick Flairer; and at the same moment we precipitated ourselves upon the
      serjeant. Dick Flairer pressed his hand upon his mouth; the poor wretch struggled violently;
      but in an instant we hurled him over the bridge-railing. He fell upon the wheel; the roar of
      the torrent, and the din of the ponderous machine drowned his last cry of agony, and the
      crushing of his bones. '  Now, Mary,  ' said I, '  you are revenged    
  "Next day, the body of the serjeant was found, fearfully crushed and mutilated, a mile below
      the mill, entangled in a bed of osiers. It was carried to the barracks: an inquest was called;
      and a verdict of '  Found Drowned  ' was recorded. Not a suspicion was entertained that
      the man had been murdered, it being evident from the surgical examination that he had been
      crushed by the wheel of the mill, upon which it was supposed he had accidentally fallen, over
      the bridge-railing, which was only about three feet high.  
  "The moment the verdict was returned, and we saw that no suspicion attached to any body in
      reference to the murder, we left Canterbury, and repaired to London. In the course of a few
      weeks, Mary became the mother of a still-born child; and in due time I assured her that I
      would overlook her fault, and marry her if she would have me. She was pleased with the
      proposal; and Dick readily agreed to it. But before we could be spliced, I one day met the
      goldsmith of the Strand in the street; and he gave me into custody. I was taken before the
      magistrates, and fully committed for an attempt to rob my employer. While I was in Newgate,
      waiting for my trial, I was greatly alarmed lest the old gentleman, whom I had robbed at the
      auction mart, should prefer an indictment against me; but my fears in this respect were
      unfounded. At length the sessions commenced, and I was put upon my trial. The Sheriffs had
      supplied me with counsel, for I was completely without funds when I was arrested. The
      barrister thus retained in my behalf, advised me to plead guilty, as I should then stand a
      good chance of escaping transportation. I followed his recommendation, and expressed my
      contrition for the offence. The Recorder read me a long lecture, and condemned me to seven
      years' transportation, which sentence was commuted to two years' imprisonment in Newgate.  
  "During that time I seriously thought of mending my ways, when I should be once more at
      liberty. But I could not conceive what on earth I should do for a livelihood if I did not
      steal. I knew that I should be turned adrift without a penny in my pocket; and I had no
      friends but those with whom I could only pursue my old career. When the chaplain spoke to me
      upon the errors of my past life, and the necessity of reformation, I used to say to him,
       '  Show me, reverend sir, how I am to obtain an honest living when I leave these walls, and
       I never shall sin again.  ' But he always gave an evasive reply. In fact, what could he
      say? If he had required a man-servant—a groom—an errand-boy—a menial scrub to black his boots
      and brush his clothes, would he have taken me? No. If he had known any friend who wanted a man
      to take care of his hounds—never enter his house—but sleep in the kennels along with the dogs,
      would the chaplain have recommended me? No. If the governor of Newgate had needed a man to
      sweep the dirt away from the front of the prison, would the reverend gentleman have spoken a
      kind word in favour of me? No. Of what use, then, is it for these gaol chaplains to preach
      penitence and reformation, when by their very actions they say, '  We do not believe that
       you can possibly change for the better?  ' Of what benefit is it for these salaried
      moralists to declaim upon the advantages of a virtuous course, when they know perfectly well
      that the old maxim is invariably correct,—'  Give a dog a bad name and hang him!  '
      Virtue must be fed; but Virtue, upon leaving the walls of a criminal prison, can obtain no
      food. Must Virtue, then die of starvation? Human nature revolts against this
      self-destruction—this systematic suicide; and, sooner than submit to it, Virtue will allow
      itself to be changed by circumstances into Vice. Virtue in this case has no option but to
      become Vice.  
  "I often thought, when I was in prison, that if there was a workshop, established by the
      government to receive persons whom the criminal gaols daily vomit back upon society, many a
      miserable creature would in reality reform, and be saved from a re-plunge into the sea of
      crime. But all that the government does is to punish. I mentioned these thoughts to the
      chaplain. And what did he say? He endeavoured to get rid of the necessity of giving a decisive
      opinion, by throwing himself headlong into a mass of argument and reasoning, half religious
      and half political, which I could not understand. Thus do those men invariably extricate
      themselves from perplexing topics. In my opinion there is no mockery more abominable—no
      hypocrisy more contemptible—no morality more baseless than the attributes of a
      gaol-chaplain!  
  "If good and pious men attended criminal prisons of their own free will, and talked in a
      plain homely manner to the inmates,—a manner which those inmates could understand,—how much
      benefit might result! But when you think that the chaplain only troubles himself about you
      because he is paid,—that he doles out his doctrine in proportion to the income which he
      receives,—and that he says the same to you to-day which he said to another yesterday, and will
      say to a third to-morrow,—his office is mean, contemptible, and degrading.  
  "It does not do for me to hold forth in this manner; I know   that  : but I cannot help
      expressing the thoughts that occupied me when I was in Newgate. They are often present in my
      memory; and, sometimes, when I am dull and in low spirits, I console myself by the conviction
      that if I am bad now, it is because there is no door open for me to be good. So a truce to
      these ideas. They do not often come from my lips; and even now I scarcely wish to recall
      them.  
  "Well—I passed my two years in Newgate; and when I was released, I stood still by the
      lamp-post at the top of the Old Bailey, thinking which way I should go. I had not a penny in
      my pocket; and I knew that in the course of a few hours I should be hungry. As true as I am
      sitting here, tears rolled down my cheeks as I contemplated the necessity of returning to my
      old pursuits,—yes—burning tears—tears of agony—such tears as I never shed before, and shall
      never shed again!  
  "Suddenly a thought struck me. I would go to the workhouse. The idea consoled me; and,
      fearful lest my good intentions should grow cool, I turned back past the door of Newgate
      again, and directed my steps down the Old Bailey towards Blackfriars' Bridge. In the course of
      an hour, I knocked at the door of the —— Workhouse, with an order for admission from the
      overseer.  
   the place. As soon as I was dressed, I was allotted to the   able-bodied men's
       department   of the Workhouse. The scale of food for this class of persons was just
      this:—  
  "So you see that we had only five ounces of cooked meat and five ounces of bacon, in the
      shape of animal food, in the course of each week! And yet we had to work—to keep the grounds
      in order, to do various jobs in the establishment, and to pick four pounds of oakum each,
      every day, the Sabbath excepted. Felons are better off;  target="#ENG18460_N079" [79]  
      for in the prison one has more meat, more bread, and more gruel (which is certainly
      nourishing) than in the workhouse!  
  "We had nothing to drink with our dinners and suppers but water—and of that they could not
      very well stint us, because it cost nothing. The able-bodied women had much   less   than
      the able-bodied men. The infirm paupers had each one ounce of tea and seven ounces of sugar
      weekly, instead of gruel, for breakfast! Fancy one ounce of tea for seven meals!  
  "We were divided into messes, or tables of ten each; and each mess elected a carver. The
      duty of the carver was to go to the kitchen and fetch the provision allotted to the
      individuals at his particular table, and then to distribute it in equal proportions. What
      fighting and wrangling always took place at meal times! On meat days, one had too much fat,
      and another's morsel was too under-done:—on bacon days, one had too much lean, and another had
      the rind given to him. Then one declared that he had been cheated out of a potatoe; and so on.
      It was a scene of perpetual selfishness—of human beings quarrelling for a crumb! But who can
      wonder? A potatoe or a cubic inch of bread was a considerable portion of a meal; and where all
      were ravenous, who could afford to lose even a potatoe or a crumb?  target="#ENG18460_N080" [80]    
  "Neither of you have ever been in a workhouse, I know; and therefore you cannot imagine the
      change it produces in its inmates. They grow discontented with the world, and look upon their
      superiors with abhorrence. An army of able-bodied men, recruited from all the Unions in the
      kingdom, would make the finest republican soldiers imaginable. They would proceed with a good
      heart to level throne, aristocracy, and every institution which they believed oppressive to
      the industrious classes.  
  "But that is no business of mine—and I care nothing for politics of any kind. Of an evening,
      we used to gather round the fire till bed-time, and talk of our past lives. Many—many of my
      companions, had, like myself, seen better days; and it actually made one's heart ache to hear
      them compare their former positions with their present ones. And after all, what can be more
      inhuman—what more cruel, than the very principles of the workhouse system? Old couples, who
      have lived together for years and years, are separated when they go to the workhouse. Mothers
      are debarred from the society of their little ones:—no ties of kindred are respected
         there  !  
  "I remember one man—he was about sixty, and much better behaved than the rest—who had been a
      writer, or something of that kind, in his time. The men used to get him now and then, when he
      was in the humour to recite poems—some of which he had composed in better days, and others
      since he had been in the Union. Those of his palmy years were all about love, and friendship,
      and sweet spring, and moonlight scenes, and so on;—but from the moment that he set foot in the
      workhouse, he bade farewell to love and friendship; and he never more was destined to know the
      enjoyments of charming seasons and tranquil hours! One of his late poems made such an
      impression on me, that I learnt it by heart. It was a workhouse scene. I remember it now; and
      will repeat it:—  
    "THE SONG OF THE WORKHOUSE.    
  
  "Stooping over the ample grate,  
  Where burnt an ounce of fuel,  
  That cheered not the gloom  
  Of the workhouse room,  
  An aged and shivering female sate,  
  Sipping a pint of gruel:  
  And as she sopped a morsel of bread  
  In that liquid thin and poor,  
  With anguish she shook her aching head,  
  And thought of the days that were o'er.  
  "Through the deep mists of years gone by  
  Her mental glances wandered;  
  And the warm blood ran  
  To her features wan;  
  And fire for a moment lighted her eye,  
    
  For she had once tripped the meadow green  
  With a heart as blithe as May;  
  And she had been crowned the village-queen  
  In times that were far away!  
  "She'd been the pride of parents dear,  
  And plenty banished sorrow;  
  And her love she gave  
  To a yeoman brave;  
  And a smiling offspring rose to cheer  
  Hearts that feared not for the morrow.  
  Oh! why should they fear? In the sweat of their brow  
  They ate their daily bread;  
  And they thought, 'The earth will e'er yield as now  
  The fruits whereon we're fed!'  
  "But when their hair grew silvery white,  
  Sorrow their cot invaded,  
  And ravaged it then  
  As armies of men  
  Sack the defenceless town by night:—  
  Thus all Hope's blossoms faded!  
  From their little farm the stock was swept  
  By the owner of their land;  
  And the very bed on which they slept,  
  Was snatched by the bailiff's hand.  
  "One hope—one fond hope now was all  
  Each tender heart dared cherish—  
  That they might remain  
  Still linked by one chain,  
  And 'midst the sorrows that might befal,  
  Together live or perish.  
  But Want drove them on to the workhouse gate;  
  And when the door was pass'd  
  They found themselves doomed to separate—  
  To separate at last!  
  "And he fell sick:—she prayed in vain  
  To be where he was lying;  
  She poured forth her moan  
  Unto hearts of stone;  
  Never admittance she could gain  
  To the room where he was dying!  
  Then into her brain the sad thoughts stole  
  That brain with anguish reeling—  
  That the great ones, judging by their own soul,  
  Think that paupers have no feeling.  
  "So, thus before the cheerless grate,  
  Watching the flick'ring ember  
  She rocked to and fro,  
  Her heart full of woe;  
  For into that heart the arrow of fate  
  Pierced like the cold of December.  
  And though she sopped a morsel of bread,  
  She could not eat for crying:  
  'T was hard that she might not support the head  
  Of her much-lov'd husband dying!  
  
  "I stayed in the workhouse six weeks; and could stand it no longer. I had to labour, and was
      half-starved. So one morning I went to the Master, demanded my clothes, and was speedily
      retracing my steps towards my old haunts. That evening I supped with Dick Flairer at the
      boozing-ken on Saffron Hill; and the same night we broke into a watchmaker's shop in the City.
      We got seventeen pounds in money, and a dozen watches and other trinkets, which we sold to the
      'fence' in Field Lane for thirty guineas. That was a good bargain for him! I then went and
      took up my quarters with Dick Flairer at his lodgings; and in a few weeks I married his sister
      Mary. Six or eight months afterwards poor Dick was killed; and—"  
  
  CHAPTER C. THE MYSTERIES OF THE GROUND-FLOOR ROOMS.  
  THE Buffer was interrupted at this point by the return of his wife, who in spite of the
      protection of the Resurrection Man's umbrella, was dripping wet.  
  We must observe that we have taken the liberty of altering and improving the language, in
      which the Buffer delivered his autobiography, to the utmost of our power: we have moreover
      embodied his crude ideas and reduced his random observations into a tangible shape. We should
      add that the man was not deficient in intellectual sharpness, in spite of the stolid
      expression of his countenance; and thus the observations which he made relative to prison
      discipline and the neglect of government to adopt means of   preventing   crime in
      preference to   punishing   it when committed, need excite no astonishment in those who
      peruse them.  
  But to return to the thread of our narrative.  
  When the Buffer's wife had taken a warm seat by the fire, and comforted herself with a
      tolerably profound libation of steaming gin-and-water, she proceeded to give an account of her
      mission.  
  "I went down to Globe Lane," she said; "and a miserable walk it was, I can assure you. The
      rain falls in torrents, and the wind blows enough to carry the Monument into the Thames. By
      the time I got down to the undertaker's house I was drenched. Then Banks wasn't at home; but
      his wife asked me to stop till he came in; and as I thought that the business was pressing, I
      agreed. I waited—and waited till I was tired; one hour passed—then half an hour more; and I
      was just coming back when Banks walks in."  
  "And so you gave him the note," said the Resurrection Man, who had listened somewhat
      impatiently to this prelude.  
  "Yes—I gave him the note," continued Moll Wicks; "and he put on a pair of spectacles with
      round glasses as big as the bottoms of wine-glasses. When he had read it, he said he would
      attend to it, and should call his-self on you to-morrow morning by nine o'clock."  
  "Well and good," exclaimed the Resurrection Man.  
  "What are you going to do, Tony?" demanded the Rattlesnake.  
  "Never do you mind now," answered the Resurrection Man. "I will tell you all to-morrow."  
  "But I haven't quite done yet," cried the Buffer's wife. "Just as I came out of the
      undertaker's shop I met the surgeon that attended upon the old gentleman at Mrs. Smith's. He
      beckoned me under an archway, and asked when the old gentleman was going to be buried? I told
      him that I knew nothing about it. He hesitated, and was going away; and then he turned round
      suddenly, and said, 'Do you think your husband would mind a job that would put ten pounds into
      his pocket?' I don't know whether he had ever seen Jack, or not——"  
  "To be sure he has," interrupted the Buffer. "Didn't I go to him when I cut my hand with the
      hatchet, chopping wood one day?"  
   knew a famous feller,' he says, 'one Anthony Tidkins'——"  
  "And so do I know him," interrupted the Resurrection Man. "Doesn't he live in the Cambridge
      Road, not far from the corner of Bethnal Green Road?"  
  "The same," answered the Buffer's wife.  
  "Well—what took place then?"  
  "He only told me to tell my husband to call upon him—and that was all."  
  "Here's more work, you see, Jack," said the Resurrection Man. "Leave this business to me.
      I'll take care and manage it. When we meet to-morrow night, I'll explain all my plans about
      the money this old fellow has left behind him; and then I'll tell you what arrangement I've
      made with this surgeon. You must mind and be with me at nine to-morrow night, Jack; because we
      won't keep young Markham waiting for us."  
  These last words were uttered with a low chuckle and an expression of countenance that
      indicated but too well the diabolical hopes and intentions of the Resurrection Man.  
  The Buffer and his wife then took leave of their friends, and departed to their own
      abode.  
  "Now, Meg," said the Resurrection Man, "it is nearly twelve o'clock; and you may get ready
      to go to bed. I am just going out for a few minutes—"  
  "As usual, Tony," cried the Rattlesnake, impatiently. "Why do you always go out now—every
      night?"  
  "I have told you over and over again not to pry into my secrets," returned the Resurrection
      Man, furiously. "You mind your own business, and only meddle in what I tell you to take a
      part; or else—"  
  "Well, well, Tony—don't be angry now," said the Rattlesnake, in her most wheedling tone. "I
      will never ask you any more questions. Only I thought it strange that you should have gone out
      every night for the last three weeks—no matter what weather—"  
  "And you may think it strange a little longer if you like," once more interrupted the
      terrible Resurrection Man, with a sinister lowering of his countenance which checked the reply
      that was rising to the lips of his companion.  
  The Rattlesnake lighted a candle, and passed into the adjoining apartment.  
  The Resurrection Man poured some raw spirits into a wine glass, tossed it off, and putting
      on his hat, left the room.  
  He descended the precipitate staircase leading to the front door of the house, and in
      another moment reached the street.  
  Simply closing, without locking, the door behind him, he turned sharply round into the dark
      alley which ran beneath a sombre and narrow arch, along one side of the house.  
  But his footsteps, on this occasion, were closely followed by the Rattlesnake.  
  Unable to restrain her curiosity any longer—and,   perhaps  , influenced by other
      motives of a less superficial nature,—Margaret Flathers had determined to follow her paramour
      this night; and, scarcely had he closed the street door, when she was already at the bottom of
      the staircase.  
  The moment she stepped into the street, she saw the dark form of the Resurrection Man turn
      down the alley above mentioned; and she muttered to herself, "I thought so! and now perhaps I
      shall find out why he never would allow me to set foot in the rooms of the lower storey."  
  The Resurrection Man passed half-way up the alley, and taking a key from his pocket,
      proceeded to open a door that communicated with the ground-floor of his singularly-built
      house.  
  He entered, and the Rattlesnake hurried up to the door. She applied her ear to the
      key-hole—listened—and heard his footsteps echoing upon the boarded floor of the back-room. In
      a few moments the grating of a lucifer-match upon the wall met her ear; and applying her eye
      for a moment to the key-hole, she saw that there was now a light within.  
  Impelled by an invincible curiosity, or other motives of a powerful nature,—if not both,—the
      Rattlesnake cautiously raised the latch, and opened the door to the distance of nearly a
      foot.  
  With the utmost care, she now ventured to look into the interior of that part of the house,
      in respect to which a species of Blue-beard restriction had existed for her ever since she
      first became the companion of the Resurrection Man in that mysterious abode.  
  Glancing cautiously in, we say, she saw a small passage communicating with two rooms—one at
      each end, front and back. The door of the front room was closed: that of the back one was
      open. She accordingly directed all her attention to the back-room.  
  Against the wall facing the door was a candle, burning in a bright tin shade or reflector;
      and in the middle of the room, between the door and the light, stood the Resurrection Man. He
      had his back towards the Rattlesnake; but she could watch all his proceedings with the
      greatest facility.  
  And how strange were those proceedings!—The Resurrection Man enveloped himself in a large
      dark cloak, and fixed a black cloth mask over his countenance. He then advanced towards a
      cupboard, which he opened, and whence he took several articles, the precise nature of which
      the Rattlesnake could not ascertain, in consequence of the position in which her paramour was
      then standing. She however observed that he placed those articles in a basket at his feet; and
      when this task was accomplished, he lifted the basket in his hand, and turned so abruptly
      round to leave the room, that the Rattlesnake trembled from head to foot lest he should have
      caught a glimpse of her head protruded through the opening of the door.  
  She drew herself back and pulled the door towards her. For a moment she felt inclined to
      beat a precipitate retreat to her own quarters; but curiosity compelled her to remain.  
  What could mean that strange disguise?—Why that cloak?—Wherefore that mask?—And what were
      the objects which the Resurrection Man had consigned to his basket?—Lastly, whither was he
      going?  
  With the most extreme caution she again pushed the door partly open, and again did she
      glance into the interior of that mysterious division of the house.  
  But all was now dark; the light had disappeared, or was extinguished, and the place was
      involved in total obscurity.  
  Nevertheless, all was not silent. The measured tread of receding footsteps fell upon the
      woman's ear: those sounds seemed to come from heavy feet descending stone stairs.  
  Fainter and fainter became the sounds, until at length they merged into the low wind, which
      whistled gloomily and monotonously through the lower part of the house.  
    
  Was it that being aware of the diabolical character of the Resurrection Man, she naturally
      associated his present strange proceedings with some deed of darkness whose very mystery made
      her shudder?  
  Was it that she trembled at the idea of being in the power of a miscreant whose ability to
      work evil seemed as unbounded as his inclination?  
  Suddenly her thoughts received an interruption which was by no means calculated to
      tranquillize her mind.  
  A scream, apparently coming from the very bowels of the earth, echoed through the lower part
      of that house—a scream expressive of an agony so intense, an anguish so acute, that it smote
      even her hardened and ruthless heart!  
  That scream was not repeated; but its echoes rang long throughout the place, and vibrated in
      a strange and terrible manner on the ears of the Rattlesnake.  
  Then followed low mutterings, in a hoarse and subdued tone; but as they gradually grew
      louder, she could recognise the menacing voice of the Resurrection Man.  
  Fear now completely triumphed over the motives which had induced the woman to seek to
      penetrate into the secrets of her paramour. The dark cloak—the black mask—the basket—the
      piercing scream—and the threatening voice, all combined to bewilder her imagination, and fill
      her with vague but not less terrible alarms.  
  Hastily closing the door, she retreated with precipitate speed from the dark alley, and
      ascended the steep staircase leading to the upper rooms of the house.  
  To throw off her clothes and betake herself to rest was the occupation of but a few minutes:
      nevertheless, as she laid aside her garments, she cast timid and furtive glances behind her—as
      if she were afraid that her eyes would encounter some horrible spectre—or some masked figure
      of appalling aspect.  
  In a quarter of an hour after she had returned from the contemplation of those mysterious
      proceedings that had filled her mind with such ineffable horror, the Resurrection Man entered
      the bed-room.  
  A light was burning upon the table, and when the door opened the Rattlesnake glanced with
      profound terror in that direction—for she feared lest he should appear in his long dark cloak
      and black mask. She was inured to crime;—but it was that crime which she could contemplate
      face to face; and thus the idea that she was in a house where deeds of unknown horror and
      machinations of an undefined degree of blackness were the business of the terrible man with
      whom her fortunes were now linked, prostrated all her courage, and filled her with alarms the
      more profound, because so ominously vague.  
  In order to avoid the risk of betraying her trepidation to the Resurrection Man, she soon
      affected to fall asleep; and, when at length slumber really overtook her, her dreams were
      filled with gaunt forms clad in long black cloaks, and wearing upon their countenances dark
      masks, through the holes of which their eyes glared with fearful brightness.  
  
  CHAPTER CI. THE WIDOW.  
  THE cold January morning struggled into existence, amidst rain and sleet, and seemed cradled
      in dense masses of clouds of tempestuous blackness.  
  It appeared as if the sun had taken leave of the earth for ever; and it would not have been
      surprising had the ignorant inquired whence came the gloomy light that just seemed to guide
      them to their toil.  
  Miserable indeed was the aspect of the eastern district of the metropolis. Emaciated women,
      wrapt in thin and scanty shawls, crept along the streets, through the pouring rain, to
      purchase at the chandlers' shops the morsel that was to serve for the morning's meal,—or,
      perhaps, to pledge some trifling article in their way, ere they could obtain that meal!
      Half-starved men,—poor wretches who never made a hearty meal, and who were yet compelled to
      work like horses,—unhappy beings, who flew to the public houses in despair, and then were
      reproached by the illiberal and intolerant for their immorality,—black sheep of Fortune's
      flock, to whom verdant pastures were unknown,—friendless outcasts, who in sickness knew no
      other consolation than that of the hospital, and in destitution, no asylum save the
      workhouse,—luckless mortals, who cursed the day they knew the power of love, and execrated
      that on which they pronounced the marriage vows, because therefrom had sprung children who
      pined for want before their face,—such men as these were seen dragging themselves along to
      their labours on the railroad, the canal, or at the docks.  
  It was about eight o'clock on this miserable morning, when a man, dressed in a shabby suit
      of black, and wearing a very dirty white neckcloth, the long ends of which hung, damp and
      lanky, over the front of his closely-buttoned body-coat, walked slowly along Smart Street—a
      thoroughfare in the eastern part of Globe Town.  
  This individual was in reality verging upon sixty; but as he dyed his hair and whiskers in
      order to maintain an uniform aspect of funereal solemnity, he looked ten years younger. His
      manner was grave and important; and, although the rain was descending in torrents, he would
      not for the world depart from that measured pace which was habitual to him. He held an old
      umbrella above his head, to protect a battered hat, round which a piece of crape was sewn in
      three or four clumsy folds; but the torrent penetrated through the cotton tegument, and two
      streams poured from the broad brims of his hat adown his anti-laughter-looking and rigidly
      demure countenance.  
  When he arrived at about the middle of Smart Street, he halted, examined the numbers of the
      houses, and at length knocked at the door of one of them.  
  An elderly woman, dressed in a neat but very homely garb, responded to the summons.  
  "Does Mrs. Smith live here, ma'am?" demanded the individual in black.  
  "My name's Smith, sir," answered the widow.  
  "Very good, ma'am. I'll have a little conversation with you, if you please;"—and the
      stranger stepped into the passage.  
  Mrs. Smith conducted him into her little parlour, and inquired his business.  
  "Mine, ma'am," was the answer, "is a professional visit—entirely a professional visit,
      ma'am. Alas! ma'am," continued the stranger, casting his eyes upwards in a most dolorous
      manner, and taking a dirty white handkerchief from his pocket,—"alas! ma'am, I understand you
      have had a sad loss here?"  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Ah! ma'am, we're all mortal!" exclaimed the stranger, with a mournful shake of the head,
      and a truly pitiful turning up of the whites of his eyes: "we're all mortal, ma'am; and
      howsomever high and mighty we may be in this life, the grave at last must have our
      carkisses!"  
  "Very true, sir," said the good woman, putting the corner of her apron to her eyes; for the
      reflection of the stranger called to her mind the loss she had experienced in the deceased Mr.
      Smith.  
  "Alas! it's too true, ma'am," continued the stranger, applying his handkerchief to his face,
      to suppress, as the widow thought, a sob: "but it is to be hoped, ma'am, that your lodger has
      gone to a better speer, where there's no cares to wex him—and no rent to pay!"  
  "I hope so too, most sincerely, sir," said Mrs. Smith, wondering when the gentleman would
      announce the precise terms of relationship in which he stood to the deceased. "But, might I
      inquire—"  
  "Yes, ma'am, you may inquire anything you choose," said the stranger, with another solemn
      shake of his head—in consequence of which a great deal of wet was thrown over Mrs. Smith's
      furniture; "for I know you by name, Mrs. Smith—I know you well by reputation—as a respectable,
      kind-hearted, and pious widder; and I feel conwinced that your treatment to the poor lamented
      deceased—" here the stranger shook his head again, and groaned audibly—"was every thing that
      it ought to be in this blessed land of Christian comfort!"  
  Mrs. Smith now began to suspect that she was honoured with the visit of a devout minister of
      some particular sect to which the deceased had probably belonged. But before she had time to
      mention her supposition, the stranger resumed his highly edifying discourse.  
  "My dear madam," he said, turning up his eyes, "the presence of death in this house—this
      wery house—ought to make us mindful of the uncertain leasehold of our own lives; it ought to
      make us prayerful and church-loving. But madam—my dear madam," continued the stranger,
      apparently on the point of bursting out into a perfect agony of grief, "there are attentions
      to be paid to the body as well as cares to entertain for the soul; and the least we can do is
      to show a feeling of weneration for our deceased friends by consigning them in a decent manner
      to the grave."  
   as you do; and I s'pose you're come to superintend the funeral. If so, I am sure
      I am very thankful, for it's a great tax on a poor lone body like me to have such a
      undertaking to attend to."  
  "I'll   undertake   the undertaking—out of respect to the poor dear deceased, ma'am,"
      observed the stranger, in a tone of deep solemnity. "And now, ma'am," he continued, rising, "I
      must request you to command those feelings which is so nat'ral under such circumstances, and
      show me into the room where the blessed departed lays."  
  Mrs. Smith, thinking within herself that the visitor must have some legitimate authority for
      his present proceeding, and presuming that he would condescend to impart to her the nature of
      that authority ere he took his leave, conducted him with very little hesitation to the room
      where the deceased lay stretched upon the bed.  
  The corpse was covered with a clean white sheet; for every thing, though excessively homely,
      was still neat and decent in the widow's dwelling.  
  "I see, ma'am," said the stranger, advancing solemnly up to the bed, and drawing the sheet
      away from the corpse, "I see that you know how to pay proper respect to the last remnants of
      mortality. Ah! ma'am, it's all wanity and wexation of spirit!"  
  With these words the extraordinary stranger drew a rule gravely from his pocket, and
      proceeded to measure the corpse, saying at the same time, "Ah! my dear madam, heaven will
      reward you for all your goodness towards our dear deceased friend!"  
  "Was he a friend of yours, then, sir?" demanded the widow, somewhat astounded at the process
      of measurement which was now going on before her eyes.  
  "Are we not all friends and brethren, ma'am?" said the stranger: "are we not all Christian
      friends and Christian brethren? Yes, ma'am, we are—we must be."  
  "May I ask, sir, why——"  
  "Yes, ma'am, ask any thing—I implore you to ask any thing. I am so overcome by the idea of
      your goodness towards the blessed defunct, and by the sense of the dooty which my
      profession——"  
  "What profession, sir?" asked Mrs. Smith, point-blank.  
  "Ah! my dear madam," answered the stranger, with a shake of the head more solemn than any he
      had yet delivered himself of, "I exercise the profession of undertaker."  
  "Undertaker!" ejaculated the widow, a light breaking in upon her as she thought of the
      systematic measurement of the body.  
  "Undertaker and furnisher of funerals, ma'am, on the most genteel and economic
      principles."  
  "Well—I raly took you for a minister," said Mrs. Smith, somewhat disappointed.  
  "Excellent woman! your goodness flatters me," ejaculated the undertaker. "But here is my
      card, ma'am—  Edward Banks  , you perceive—  Globe Lane  . Ah! my dear madam, I knew
      your dear deceased husband well! Often and oft have we chanted the same hymn together in the
      parish church; and often have we drunk together out of the same pewter at the   Spotted
       Dog  ."  
  Mournful, indeed, was the shake of the head that accompanied this latter assurance; and the
      undertaker once more had recourse to his dingy pocket-handkerchief.  
  The widow used the corner of her apron.  
  Mr. Banks saw the advantage he had gained, and hastened to clench the object of his
      visit.  
  "Yes, my dear madam, no man respected your dear husband more than me: in fact, I wenerated
      that man. Poor dear Thomas Smith——"  
  "Matthew, sir," said the widow mildly.  
  "Ah! so it was, ma'am—Matthew Smith! Good fellow—charming companion—excellent man—gone,
      gone—never to come back no more!"  
  And Mr. Banks sobbed audibly.  
  "Well," observed the widow, wiping her eyes, "it's wery strange that poor dear Mat never
      should have mentioned your name to me, considering you was so intimate."  
  "Our friendship, ma'am, was a solemn compact—too solemn to be made a matter of idle
      conversation. But since I have made myself known to you, my dear madam, do, pray, let me take
      this unpleasant business off your hands, and conduct the funeral of your lamented lodger."  
  "Well, sir," said the widow, after a moment's reflection, "since you are in the undertaking
      line, and as you've called so polite and all, I shall be wery much obleeged——"  
  "Say no more, my dear Mrs. Smith," exclaimed Mr. Banks. "I will do the thing respectable for
      you—and wery moderate charges. You need not bother yourself about it in any way. We will bury
      the dear departed in one of the Globe Lane grounds; and I will even provide the
      clergyman."  
  "Do you know a good—pious—sincere minister, that you can recommend, Mr. Banks?" asked the
      widow.  
  "I do, ma'am—a godly, dewout, prayerful man—meek and humble," answered the undertaker.  
  "I rayther want a little advice in one way—quite private," continued Mrs. Smith; "and I
      should take it as a faviour if your friend the minister would just step round—or shall I call
      upon him?"  
  "No, Mrs. Smith—certainly not. He shall pay his respects to you. Gentlemen always waits upon
      ladies," added Mr. Banks.  
  Though he uttered a compliment, he did not smile; but Mrs. Smith was flattered; and, leading
      the way down stairs to her little parlour, she invited Mr. Banks to take "a thimble-full of
      something short to keep out the damp that cold morning."  
  Mr. Banks accepted the civility; and the costs of the funeral were duly settled. The
      undertaker engaged to inter the deceased lodger for five pounds, and pay all expenses. At
      length he took his leave; and Mrs. Smith felt quite relieved from any anxiety respecting the
      obsequies of the deceased.  
  From Mrs. Smith's humble abode, the respectable Mr. Banks proceeded to the dwelling of the
      Resurrection Man, who had just returned from a visit to the surgeon that had attended upon the
      deceased. The success of this visit will be related hereafter; for the present, let us hasten
      to inform our readers that Mr. Banks acquainted his friend Mr. Tidkins with every particular
      respecting his call upon the widow in Smart Street.  
  
  CHAPTER CII. THE REVEREND VISITOR.  
    
  "Well," she said to herself, "that certainly is a wery singular man. To have knowed my
      husband so well, and for me never to have knowed   him  ! P'raps, after all, my poor Mat
      was fond of the public-house, and didn't like to speak of the acquaintances he met there. That
      accounts for his never mentioning Mr. Banks's name. But for a man like Mr. Banks to come here
      whimpering and crying over a corpse which he never see living, shows a excellent heart. Mr.
      Banks must be a wery amiable man. And yet I always heerd say that butchers and undertakers was
      the most unfeelingest of men. They never let butchers set on juries; but I'm sure if
      undertakers is so milk-hearted,   they   may set on juries, or up in pulpits, or any
      where else, for my part. Mr. Banks is a wery respectable man—and a wery pious one too. I'm
      sure I thought he was going to sing a hymn—'specially after the dodger of gin he took. The
      minister that he said he'd send to me must be a holy man: I shall put confidence in him—and
      foller his advice."  
  A tap at the parlour door interrupted Mrs. Smith's reverie; and the Buffer's wife entered
      the room.  
  "How do you do this morning, ma'am?" said Moll Wicks. "I thought I heerd that you had
      company just now?"  
  "Only Mr. Banks, the undertaker, Mrs. Wicks."  
  "Oh! Mr. Banks, was it?" ejaculated the Buffer's wife, who now began to comprehend a part of
      the Resurrection Man's plan: "and a highly respectable individual he is too."  
  "Do you know any thing of him, Mrs. Wicks?"  
  "Certainly I do, ma'am. He buried my grandfather and grandmother, my great uncle and my lame
      aunt, and never took no more than expenses out of pocket," answered Moll—although be it well
      remembered, she had never seen nor heard of Mr. Banks before the preceding evening.  
  "Ah! well—I thought I couldn't be wrong," observed the widow, extremely satisfied with this
      information.  
  "And so I suppose, ma'am, you've made the arrangements with him for the funeral?"  
  "Just so," responded Mrs. Smith; "and in the course of the day I expect a wery pious
      minister of Mr. Banks's acquaintance."  
  Scarcely were these words uttered, when a modest double knock at the front door was heard—a
      summons which Mrs. Wicks volunteered to answer.  
  The moment she opened the door, an ejaculation of surprise was about to issue from her
      tongue; but the individual whom she saw upon the threshold put his finger to his lips to
      impose silence.  
  The Buffer's wife responded with a significant nod, and introduced the visitor into the
      widow's parlour.  
  Moll Wicks then withdrew to her own room.  
  Meantime the visitor stood in the presence of Mrs. Smith, who beheld before her a short man,
      with a pale face, dark piercing eyes, shaggy brows, and long straggling black hair. He was
      dressed in a respectable suit of mourning, and wore a clean white cravat.  
  "Pardon me, ma'am, if I intrude," said the visitor; "but my friend Mr. Banks—"  
  "Oh! sir, you are quite welcome," ejaculated the widow. "Pray sit down, sir. I presume you
      are the reverend minister—"  
  "I am a humble vessel of the Lord," answered the visitor, casting down his eyes with great
      meekness: "and I am come to see in what way I can be useful to a respectable widow of whom my
      friend, the excellent Mr. Banks, has spoken so very highly."  
  "The truth is, reverend sir," said the widow, sinking her voice, and drawing her chair
      closer up to her sanctified visitor, "I want some good advice how to act in a wery partickler
      matter."  
  "It is my business to give good advice," was the reply.  
  "I thought so, reverend sir; and if Mat had been alive, I should have told him that I
      thought so. Howsomever, this is what I want to know about. An old gentleman dies yesterday
      morning in my house; and he leaves a little money—thirty or forty pounds, or so—behind him. He
      always paid his way with me; and so I don't start no claim to a farthing of it. He has no
      name—no friends—no relations—no nothing: now the question is, sir, what am I to do with this
      here money that he's left behind him?"  
  "You are a very honest woman, Mrs. Smith," answered the reverend gentleman; "and you conduct
      yourself in a most creditable way in this respect. Many people would have put the money into
      their own pockets."  
  "And that's just what a female lodger of mine wanted me to do, reverend sir," exclaimed the
      landlady. "But I know myself better. Dead man's money never did no one no good unless it was
      properly left, as the saying is. Mrs. Wicks would have had me keep it all quiet; and I must
      say that I was surprised at the perposal. But, between you and me, sir, I don't think overmuch
      of my lodgers, although they do pay their rent pretty reg'lar. The man doesn't seem to have
      any work or employment; and yet they live on the best—biled beef one day, steaks the next,
      bacon and greens the next—and so on. I know that   I   can't do it on nothing. And then
      they have their ale at dinner, and their gin of an evening. For my part I can't understand it.
      The man keeps late hours too; and the woman swears like a trooper when she's got a drop too
      much. But then, as I said, they pays their way; and a lone widder like me doesn't dare ask no
      questions."  
  "Of course not," said the reverend gentleman. "I think you stated that the name of the
      lodgers you allude to is Wicks?"  
  "Yes, sir—Wicks."  
  "I know them—by reputation only. They have an annuity of eighty pounds a-year, and are very
      respectable people. Their only fault is that they are rather fond of company—and that,
      perhaps, makes them stay out late now and then."  
  "Well, sir, if a pious gentleman like you thinks well on them, it isn't for a poor ignorant
      creatur' like me to say black's the white of their eye.... They pays their way; and that's all
      I ought to bother myself about. But, as I was a-saying, the old gentleman which lodged with me
      dies, and leaves some money behind him. There ain't kith or kin to claim it. Now what had I
      better do with it?"  
  "The ecclesiastical law—"  
  "Sir?"  
  "The law of Doctors' Commons, I mean, is very particular on this head," said the reverend
      visitor. "There are only two things to do."  
  "And which be they, sir?" asked the widow.  
  "Either to go and put the money into the Chancery Court, or to bury it in the coffin along
      with the deceased."  
  "And suppose I put it into the Chancery Court, sir?"  
  "Then no one will ever get it out again—that's all."  
    
  "Then he'll just have to pay two pounds costs for every pound he draws out."  
  "Lack-a-daisy me!" ejaculated the widow. "I raly think it would be best to bury the money in
      the poor old gentleman's coffin."  
  "I am sure it would be," said the reverend adviser; "and although you would be giving up a
      treasure in this life, you would be laying up for yourself a treasure in heaven."  
  "Ah! well-a-day, sir—we must all think of that. I shall foller your advice, and bury the
      money with the poor man in his coffin."  
  "Without mentioning the business to a soul except Mr. Banks," said the saintly man, in an
      impressive tone.  
  "Or else his rest might be disturbed—eh, sir?" demanded the widow, sinking her voice to a
      whisper. "But do you think there's such people as resurrection men now-a-days?"  
  "Resurrection men!" ejaculated the reverend visitor, bursting out into a laugh; "no, my dear
      madam—society has got rid of those abominations."  
  "Then where do surgeons get corpses from, sir?"  
  "From the hulks, the prisons, and the workhouses," was the answer.  
  "What! poor creatures which goes to the workus!" cried Mrs. Smith, revolting at the
      idea.  
  "Yes—ma'am; but the surgeons don't like them as subjects, because they're nothing but skin
      and bone."  
  "Well, for my part," exclaimed the widow, wiping away a tear, "I think it's wery hard if,
      after paying rates and taxes for a many—many year, I should be obleeged to go to the workus,
      and then be cut up in a surgeon's slaughter-house at last."  
  "Ah! my dear ma'am, these are sad times—very sad times," said the sanctified gentleman. "But
      a woman who does her duty to her fellow creatures as you do, need fear nothing; heaven will
      protect you!"  
  With these words the holy man rose from his seat, and prepared to depart.  
  "I hope Mr. Banks has engaged you to perform the service over my poor deceased lodger, sir?"
      said the widow, as she conducted him to the door.  
  "He has, ma'am," was the reply; and the reverend minister took his leave of Mrs. Smith, from
      whose mind a considerable load was removed by the suggestion she had received relative to the
      disposal of the money of her defunct lodger—a suggestion which she now determined to follow to
      the very letter.  
  In the mean time the Rattlesnake had been left alone at the mysterious dwelling which she
      and her terrible paramour inhabited.  
  Before the Resurrection Man went out, after the call of Mr. Banks, he threw aside his
      every-day garb, and put on a complete suit of black. He performed the ceremony of his toilet
      somewhat hurriedly; and the Rattlesnake perceived with the most unfeigned delight that he
      forgot to transfer the contents of the pockets of his old garments to those of his new ones.
      At length he went out; and the Rattlesnake instantly commenced a strict examination of the
      clothes which he had just put off.  
  There were a few papers and dirty letters, but of those the woman took no notice. Neither
      did her fingers clutch greedily the three or four sovereigns which were contained in a greasy
      purse. A bunch of keys—the principal object of her search—rivetted all her attention—engrossed
      all her interest.  
  Without a moment's delay, she descended the stairs, and issued from the house. She darted up
      the narrow alley, paused at the side door, and tried the lock with the different keys. The
      last of all was the one which opened the door.  
  The heart of the Rattlesnake beat with joy as she entered the passage, and closed the door
      carefully behind her.  
  She first peeped into the front room, and by the faint light that was admitted through the
      heart-shaped holes in the shutters, she beheld only the implements peculiar to the avocation
      of a resurrection man; namely, flexible iron rods to sound the depths of graves, and long
      poles with hooks at the ends to drag up bodies, together with saws, spades, pickaxes, trowels,
      ropes, skeleton-keys, &amp;c. &amp;c.  
  The Rattlesnake then entered the back room, which was small, damp, and in a dilapidated
      condition. The plaster of the walls had given way in several places; and the whole appearance
      of the chamber seemed to indicate that it had not been inhabited for many years.  
  A table, a chair, and a cupboard were all the furniture which the room contained. On the
      table lay the mask, and over the chair hung the cloak in which the Resurrection Man had
      disguised himself on the preceding night. The basket, which she had seen him use on the same
      occasion, and which was of the kind that housewives take to market to hold their purchases,
      lay upon the floor.  
  The contents and appearance of the room were visible by means of the light admitted through
      the shutters.  
  The door of the cupboard was locked, but one of the keys which the Rattlesnake had with her
      speedily unlocked it. There, however, was nothing either to excite or allay her curiosity—for
      it was empty.  
  She now proceeded to examine the chamber more carefully, expecting to find some secret
      communication with a subterranean excavation; for she was still impressed with the idea that
      she had heard the steps of the Resurrection Man descend a flight of stairs on the preceding
      evening; and she was also convinced that the scream she had then heard had proceeded from a
      greater distance or lower depth than the small back chamber in which she now found
      herself.  
  But all her attempts to penetrate this mystery were unavailing; and, fearful that the
      Resurrection Man might return and detect her proceedings, she hastened away from the ground
      floor of this strange house.  
  Carefully locking the doors after her, she succeeded in reaching the upper story and
      replacing the keys where she had found them, some time ere she heard the steps of the
      Resurrection Man ascending the staircase.  
  When he entered the bed-room to change his clothes once more, he found her busily engaged in
      some domestic occupation; and, as she welcomed him in her usual manner, not a suspicion of her
      proceedings entered his mind.  
  "Well," he said, as he assumed his common garb, "I have managed this business. I have played
      the parson to some purpose; and the old woman has consented to bury the yellow boys along with
      the old fellow. I shall now sit down and write a letter to a certain Mr. Chichester, which
      letter you must take to the post yourself. That being done, I can remain quiet until the
      evening; and then," he added, with a ferocious leer, "  then    
  
  CHAPTER CIII. HOPES AND FEARS.  
  WE must now go back to the preceding day, and introduce our readers to Markham Place,
      immediately after the Buffer had called upon Richard in the manner already described.  
  Richard had received him in the library, and had there heard the exciting news of which the
      Buffer was the bearer.  
  Dismissing the man to the kitchen to partake of some refreshment, Richard hastened to the
      parlour, where Mr. Monroe and Ellen were seated.  
  The past sorrows and anxieties which the young man had experienced were now all forgotten:
      forgotten also was the dread exposure which he had so recently received at the theatre,—an
      exposure which had deprived him of the honourable renown earned by his own talent,—an
      exposure, too, which had induced Ellen to abandon that career wherein she excelled so
      pre-eminently.  
  The idea of meeting his well-beloved brother now alone occupied his mind:—the hope of seeing
      and even succouring the wanderer banished every other consideration.  
  His cheek, lately so pale, was flushed with a glow of animation, and his eyes glistened with
      delight, as he rushed into the room where Ellen and her father were seated.  
  "Eugene is returned—my brother has come back at last!" he exclaimed.  
  "Your brother!" repeated Ellen, deadly pallor overspreading her countenance.  
  "Eugene!" cried Mr. Monroe, in a tone of deep interest.  
  "Yes—Eugene is in London—is returned," answered Richard, not noticing the strange impression
      which his words had made, and still produced upon Ellen, who now sat incapable of motion in
      her chair, as if she were suddenly paralyzed: "Eugene is in London! A man has just been to
      tell me this welcome news; and I am to see my brother to-morrow evening."  
  "To-morrow evening!" said Mr. Monroe. "And why not now—at once?"  
  "Alas! my brother is in some difficulty, and dares not appear at the dwelling of his
      forefathers. I am not aware of the nature of that dilemma, but I am assured that he has need
      of my help."  
  "Where are you to meet him?" inquired Monroe, somewhat surprised by the singularity of this
      announcement.  
  "At the eastern extremity of London—on the banks of the canal, near some place called Twig
      Folly."  
  "And at what hour?" demanded the old man.  
  "To-morrow night, at ten precisely," was the reply.  
  "Do you know the man who brought you this message? or have you received a letter?" asked
      Ellen, who now began to breathe more freely.  
  "No, I never saw the man before; nor have I any letter. But, surely, you cannot suppose that
      any one is deceiving me in so cruel a manner?"  
  "I feel convinced of it," said Ellen, with peculiar emphasis on her words and warmth in her
      manner.  
  "No—no—impossible!" cried Markham, unwilling to allow the hope which had a moment ago
      appeared so bright, to be obscured by the mists of doubt: then, acting upon a sudden impulse,
      he rang the bell violently.  
  Whittingham speedily made his appearance.  
  "The man that I have just sent below," said Richard, hastily, "has come to inform me that my
      brother is in London—"  
  "Mister Eugene in London!" ejaculated the old butler, forgetting his gravity, and literally
      beginning to dance with joy.  
  "And he has appointed to meet me to-morrow evening in a very distant and lonely part of
      London," continued Markham. "This circumstance seems suspicious—strange;—at least so Miss
      Monroe thinks—"  
  "Nay—I do not   think  , Richard: I am   sure  ," exclaimed Ellen, with the same
      emphasis which had marked her previous declaration.  
  "At all events, Whittingham," said Markham, "do you return to the kitchen, get into
      conversation with the man, and then give us your opinion."  
  The old butler withdrew to execute these orders.  
  Markham then began to pace the room in an agitated manner.  
  "I cannot think who could be cruel enough to practise such a vile cheat upon me," he said,
      "if a cheat it really be. No one would benefit himself by so doing. Besides—the man spoke of
      the appointment which my brother made when we parted on yonder hill; he spoke of that
      appointment as a token of his sincerity—as a proof of the veracity of his statement—as an
      evidence that he came direct from Eugene!"  
  "Many persons are acquainted with the fact of that appointment," said Ellen. "There is not
      an individual in this neighbourhood who is ignorant of the meeting that is named for the 10th
      of July, 1843, between the ash-trees on that hill."  
  "True!" exclaimed Markham. "The mere mention of that appointment is scarcely a sufficient
      evidence. And yet my brother might deem that it would prove sufficient: Eugene may not know
      how suspicious the deceits of this world are calculated to render the mind that has been their
      victim."  
  "I have no doubt that Eugene is by this time as well acquainted with the world as you can
      be, Richard," persisted Ellen; "and I am also convinced that if he were to send such a message
      to you as this stranger has brought—making an appointment at a strange place and at a very
      lonely hour—he would have been careful to accompany it with some undeniable token of its
      genuineness."  
  "You reason sensibly, Ellen," said Markham; "and yet I am by no means inclined to surrender
      up the hope that was just now so consoling to my heart—wounded as that heart is by many
      misfortunes!"  
  "I reason consistently with your interests," returned Ellen. "Nothing could persuade me that
      your brother would fail to write a line to you in such a case as this is represented to
      be."  
  "What say you, Mr. Monroe?" inquired Richard.  
  "I am hesitating between the two arguments," answered the old man: "I know not whether to
      encourage the hope to which you cling—or to suffer myself to be persuaded by the reasoning of
      Ellen."  
  At this moment Whittingham returned to the parlour.  
  "The enwoy-plentipotent-and-hairy is gone," said Whittingham; "and, although he didn't show
      his credentials, my firm compression is that he was raly the representation of the court he
      said he come from."  
  "You questioned him closely?" asked Markham.  
   compostor, I should have circumwented him pretty soon, I can assure you."  
  "He answered your questions in a straightforward manner, then?" persisted Richard.  
  "He couldn't have been more straightfor'ard," replied Whittingham. "I'm sure he's a honest,
      simple-hearted, well-meaning man."  
  "Then it is decided!" ejaculated Richard: "I will go to this appointment. Who knows in what
      peril my poor brother may be? who can say from what dangers I may save him? who can explain
      what powerful motives he may have for the nature of the appointment he has made, and the
      caution he has adopted in making it? I should be wrong to allow a suspicion to interfere with
      a duty. Were any thing serious to happen to Eugene, through the want of a friend at this
      moment, how should I ever after reproach myself? I will not incur such a chance: I will go
      to-morrow evening to the spot named, and to the hour appointed!"  
  Whittingham withdrew; and Ellen once more endeavoured to deter Richard from his
      resolution.  
  "In the name of God, reflect," she exclaimed, with an earnestness which, had he not been
      otherwise preoccupied, would have struck him by its peculiarity, for it seemed rather the
      impassioned expression of a conviction based on indisputable grounds, than a doubt which might
      be based on truth or error;—"in the name of God, reflect, Richard, ere you endanger your life,
      perhaps, by going at a auspicious hour to a lonely place. Remember, you have enemies:
      recollect how nearly you met your death at the hands of   one villain   in the
      neighbourhood of Bird-Cage Walk—the narrative of which occurrence and your miraculous escape
      you have so often related to us;—reflect that   that   was not the only occasion on which
      the same miscreant has sought to injure you—"  
  "I know to what you allude, Ellen," said Markham, significantly; "and I thank you sincerely
      for your interest in my behalf. But, believe me, there is no Resurrection Man in the present
      matter: all is straightforward—I feel convinced of it."  
  Markham uttered these words in a tone which left no scope for further argument or
      remonstrance; and Ellen threw herself back in her chair, a prey to reflections of the most
      painful nature.  
  At length she retired to her chamber to meditate in secret upon the incident of the
      morning.  
  "What can I do," she mused aloud, "to convince Richard Markham that he is nursing a
      delusion? I tremble lest some enemy should meditate treachery against him. Perhaps even his
      life may be threatened? Oh! the plots—the perfidies—the villanies which are engendered in this
      London! But how warn him? how prove to him that he is deceived? Alas! that is impossible;
      unless, indeed—"  
  But she shook her head impatiently, as if to renounce as impracticable the idea which had
      for a moment occupied her mind.  
  "No," she continued, "that were madness indeed! And yet what can be done? He must not be
      allowed to rush headlong and blindly into danger—for that danger awaits him, I feel convinced.
      Perhaps that terrible man, from whose power he once escaped, and who denounced him at the
      theatre, may be the instigator of all this? And, if such be the fact, then who knows where the
      atrocity of that miscreant may stop? Murder—cold-blooded, ruthless murder may be the result of
      this mysterious appointment. And the murder of whom?" said Ellen, a shudder passing, like a
      cold chill, over her entire frame: "the murder of my benefactor—of the noble-minded, the
      generous hearted young man who gave us an asylum when all the world forsook us! Oh! no—no—it
      must not be! I dare not tell him all I know; but I can do somewhat to protect him!"  
  She smiled, in spite of the unpleasant nature of the emotions that agitated her bosom,—she
      smiled, because a wild and romantic idea had entered her imagination.  
  Without further hesitation,—and acting under the sudden impulse of that idea,—she sate down
      and wrote a short note.  
  When she had sealed and addressed it, she rang the bell.  
  In a few moments Marian answered the summons.  
  "My faithful friend," said Ellen, "I am about to put your goodness to another test. But
      before I explain what I require of you, I beseech that you will not now endeavour to penetrate
      my motives. You shall know all the day after to-morrow."  
  "Speak, Miss; I am always ready to do any thing I can for you," said Marian.  
  "In the evening," continued Ellen, "you must find a pretence to go out for two or three
      hours. In the first instance you must call at Mr. Greenwood's house—"  
  "Mr. Greenwood's?" ejaculated Marian.  
  "Yes—but your business is not this time with him. On the contrary, he must not know the real
      motive of your visit, which is to deliver this note into the hands of his Italian valet
      Filippo. You have never seen Filippo—for he entered the service of Mr. Greenwood since you
      called there some months ago. You cannot, however, mistake him. He is a tall, dark man, with
      long black curling hair. Moreover, he speaks English with a strong foreign accent."  
  "The description is sufficient, Miss," said Marian; "I shall not be mistaken."  
  "This note is to be delivered into his hand—and his only," continued Ellen. "Should you meet
      Mr. Greenwood by accident, you may say, '  I come from Miss Monroe to inform you that your
       child is well and thriving  .' This will be an excuse; I must leave the rest to you; but I
      implore you to do all you can to obtain an interview with Filippo."  
  "I will follow your wishes, Miss, to the utmost of my power," returned Marian.  
  "And when you know the motives of my present proceeding," said Ellen, "you will be satisfied
      with the part you have taken in it."  
  "I do not doubt you, Miss," observed Marian. "Have you seen the dear little baby
      lately?"  
  "I saw him yesterday," answered Ellen. "I called at Mr. Wentworth's: the excellent man's
      wife was nursing my little Richard. I took him in my arms and fondled him; but, alas! he cried
      bitterly. Of course he does not know me: he will learn to look up to a stranger as his mother!
      Oh! Marian, that idea pierced like a dagger to my very heart!"  
  "Cheer up, Miss!" exclaimed Marian, in a kind tone; "better days will come."  
  "But never the day, Marian," added Ellen, solemnly, "when I can proclaim myself the mother
      of that child, nor blush to mention its father's name!"  
  
  CHAPTER CIV. FEMALE COURAGE.  
   dealing in indecent prints and volumes. The reputation it thus acquired was not
      a very creditable one.  
  Time has, however, included Holywell Street in the clauses of its Reform Bill. Several
      highly respectable booksellers and publishers have located themselves in the place that once
      deserved no better denomination than "Rag Fair." The unprincipled venders of demoralizing
      books and pictures have, with few exceptions, migrated into Wych Street or Drury Lane; and
      even the two or three that pertinaciously cling to their old temples of infamy in Holywell
      Street, seem to be aware of the incursions of respectability into that once notorious
      thoroughfare, and cease to outrage decency by the display of vile obscenities in their
      windows.  
  The reputation of Holywell Street has now ceased to be a by-word: it is respectable; and, as
      a mart for the sale of literary wares, threatens to rival Paternoster Row.  
  It is curious to observe that, while butchers, tailors, linen-drapers, tallow-manufacturers,
      and toy-venders, are gradually dislodging the booksellers of Paternoster Row, and thus
      changing the once exclusive nature of this famous street into one of general features, the
      booksellers, on the other hand, are gradually ousting the old-clothes dealers of Holywell
      Street.  
  As the progress of the American colonist towards the far-west drives before it the
      aboriginal inhabitants, so do the inroads of the bibliopoles menace the Israelites of Holywell
      Street with total extinction.  
  Paternoster Row and Holywell Street are both losing their primitive features: the former is
      becoming a mart of miscellaneous trades; the latter is rising into a bazaar of
      booksellers.  
  Already has Holywell Street progressed far towards this consummation. On the southern side
      of the thoroughfare scarcely a clothes shop remains; and those on the opposite side wear a
      dirty and miserably dilapidated appearance. The huge masks, which denote the warehouse where
      masquerading and fancy-attire may be procured on sale or hire, seem to "grin horribly a
      ghastly smile," as if they knew that their occupation was all but gone. The red-haired ladies
      who stand at their doors beneath a canopy of grey trousers with black seats, and blue coats
      with brown elbows—a distant imitation of Joseph's garment of many colours—seem dispirited and
      care-worn, and no longer watch, with the delighted eyes of maternal affection, their promising
      offspring playing in the gutters. Their glances are turned towards the east—a sure sign that
      they meditate an early migration to the pleasant regions which touch upon the Minories.  
  Holywell Street is now a thoroughfare which no one can decry on the score of reputation: it
      is, however, impossible to deny that, were the southern range of houses pulled down, the
      Strand would reap an immense advantage, and a fine road would be opened from the New Church to
      Saint Clement Danes.  
  It was about half-past seven in the evening that Ellen Monroe, dressed in the most simple
      manner, and enveloped in a large cloak, entered Holywell Street.  
  Her countenance was pale; but its expression was one of resolution and firmness.  
  She walked slowly along from the west end of the street towards the eastern extremity,
      glancing anxiously upon the countenances of those traders who stood in front of the
      second-hand clothes shops.  
  At length she beheld a female—one of the identical ladies with red hair above alluded
      to—standing on the threshold of one of those warehouses.  
  Ellen looked upwards, and perceived all kinds of articles of male attire suspended over the
      head of this female, and swinging backwards and forwards, like so many men hanging, upon the
      shop-front.  
  Ellen paused—glanced wistfully at the Jewess, and appeared to hesitate.  
  Her manner was so peculiar, that, although the clothes venders do not usually solicit the
      custom of females, the Jewess immediately exclaimed in a sharp under-tone, "Sell or buy,
      ma'am?"  
  Ellen turned, without another moment's hesitation, into the shop.  
  "I wish to purchase a complete suit of male attire—for myself," said Miss Monroe. "Serve me
      quickly—and we shall not dispute about the price."  
  These last words denoted a customer of precisely the nature that was most agreeable to the
      Jewess. She accordingly bustled about her, ransacked drawers and cupboards, and spread such a
      quantity of coats, trousers, and waistcoats, before Ellen, that the young lady was quite
      bewildered.  
  "Select me a good suit which you think will fit me," said Miss Monroe, after a moment's
      hesitation; "and allow me to try it on in a private room."  
  "Certainly, ma'am," answered the Jewess; and, having looked out a suit, she conducted Ellen
      up stairs into her own sleeping-apartment.  
  "And now I require a hat and a pair of boots," said Ellen;—"in a word, every thing suitable
      to form a complete male disguise. I am going to a masquerade," she added, with a smile.  
  The Jewess made no reply: it did not concern her, if her customer chose to metamorphose
      herself, so long as   she   was paid; and she accordingly hastened to supply all the
      remaining apparel necessary to complete the disguise.  
  She then left Ellen to dress herself at leisure.  
  And soon that charming form was clothed in the raiment of the other sex: those delicate feet
      and ankles were encased in heavy boots; thick blue trousers hampered the limbs lately so
      supple in the voluptuous dance; a coarse shirt and faded silk waistcoat imprisoned the lovely
      bosom; a collar and black neckcloth concealed the swan-like neck and dazzling whiteness of the
      throat; and a capacious frock coat concealed the admirable symmetry of the faultless figure.
      The hair was then gathered up in a manner which would not betray the sex of the wearer of
      those coarse habiliments, especially when the disguise was aided by the darkness of the night,
      and when that luxuriant mass was covered with the broad-brimmed and somewhat slouching hat
      which the Jewess had provided for the purpose.  
  Ellen's toilette was thus completed, and she then descended to the shop.  
  The Jewess—perhaps not altogether unaccustomed to such occurrences—made no comment, and took
      no impertinent notice of the metamorphosed lady. She contented herself with asking a handsome
      price for the clothes and accommodation afforded; and Ellen paid the sum without a murmur,
      merely observing that she should send for her own apparel next day.  
  Miss Monroe then left the shop, and issued from Holywell Street just as the church clocks in
      the neighbourhood struck eight.  
   been placed: she was not, therefore, now likely to betray any diffidence or
      timidity as she threaded, in male attire, the crowded streets of the metropolis. She threw
      into her gait as much assurance as possible; and thus, without exciting any particular notice,
      she pursued her way towards the eastern districts of the great city.  
  The weather was cold and damp; but the rain, which had fallen in torrents the day before,
      had apparently expended its rage for a short interval. A sharp wind, however, swept through
      the streets; and Ellen pitied the poor shivering, half-naked wretches, whom she saw huddling
      upon steps, or crouching beneath archways, as she passed along.  
  Ellen walked rapidly, and having gained Bishopsgate Street, proceeded as far as the terminus
      of the Eastern Counties Railway.  
  There she halted, and glanced anxiously around her.  
  In a few minutes, a tall man, wrapped up in a large cloak, came up to the spot where she was
      standing.  
  "Is that you, Filippo?" said Ellen.  
  "Yes, Miss; I am here in obedience to your commands," returned Mr. Greenwood's Italian
      valet. "I promised your servant yesterday evening that I would be punctual to the
      hour—half-past eight—to-night; and I have kept my word."  
  "I owe you a debt of gratitude, which I never shall be able to repay," said Ellen. "Your
      generous behaviour towards me on a former occasion emboldened me to write to you when I
      required a friend. I told you in my note not to be surprised if you should find me disguised
      in male attire; I moreover requested you to arm yourself with pistols. Have you complied with
      this desire on my part?"  
  "I have, Miss," answered Filippo. "Conceiving it to be impossible that you could wish me to
      aid you in any dishonourable service, I have attended to your commands in every respect. I
      mentioned to you when we last met that my mission to England is from a lady now enjoying a
      sovereign rank, and that it is devoted to good and liberal purposes. Under those
      circumstances, I am ready to assist you in any manner consistent with my own principles and
      with the real objects of my mission.  
  "You will this night be the means of rendering an essential service to a fellow-creature,"
      said Ellen, in an impressive tone. "A foul conspiracy against him,—whether to take his life or
      for other purposes of villany, I know not,—has been devised; and he has blindly fallen into
      the snare that has been spread for him. At ten o'clock he is to attend an appointment on the
      banks of the canal at a place called Twig Folly. We must proceed thither: we must watch at a
      little distance; and, if need be, we must interpose to save him."  
  "A more simple plan, Miss," said the Italian, "would be to warn this individual of his
      danger."  
  "I have done so; but he will not believe that treachery is intended," returned Ellen.  
  "Then another effectual manner to counteract the designs of villains in such a case is to
      obtain the assistance of the police."  
  "No, Filippo; such a proceeding would lead to inquiries and investigations whence would
      transpire circumstances that must not be made known."  
  "Miss Monroe, this proceeding on your part is so mysterious, that I hesitate whether to
      accompany you further," said the Italian.  
  While thus conversing, they had pursued their way, Ellen being the guide, along Church
      Street into the Bethnal Green Road.  
  "Come with me—do not hesitate—I implore you," exclaimed Ellen. "If you persist in
      penetrating my motives for acting in this strange manner, I will tell you all, rather than you
      should retreat at a moment when it is too late for me to obtain other succour. And be your
      resolve as it may," added Ellen, hastily, "nothing shall induce   me   to turn back.
      Desert me—abandon me if you will, Filippo; but, in the name of every thing sacred, lend me the
      weapons which you carry with you."  
  The Italian made no reply for some moments, but continued to walk rapidly along by the side
      of the disguised lady.  
  "I will believe, Miss Monroe," he said, at length, "that your motives are excellent; but are
      you well advised?"  
  "Listen," exclaimed Ellen. "The individual, whose life we may perhaps this night save, is
      Richard Markham—the generous young man who has been a son to my father, and a brother to
      myself."  
  "I have heard Mr. Greenwood mention his name many times," observed Filippo.  
  "He believes that he is to meet his brother, from whom he has been for many years separated,
      this night on the banks of the canal," continued Ellen. "For certain reasons I know most
      positively that the idea of such an appointment can only be a plot on the part of some enemies
      of Richard Markham. And yet I dared not communicate those reasons to him—Oh! no," added Ellen,
      with a shudder, "that was impossible—impossible!"  
  "I do not seek to penetrate further into your secrets, Miss," said Filippo, struck by the
      earnestness of the young lady's manner, and naturally inclined to admire the heroism of her
      character, as developed by the proceeding in which he was now bearing a part.  
  "And the necessity of keeping those   certain reasons   a profound secret," continued
      Ellen, "has also prevented me from procuring the intervention of the police. In the same way,
      should the result of our present expedition introduce you to the notice of Mr. Markham, it
      would be necessary for you to retain as a profound secret who you are—how you came to
      accompany me—and especially your connexion with Mr. Greenwood. Not for worlds must the name of
      Greenwood be mentioned in the presence of Richard Markham! If it should be necessary to enter
      into explanations with him, leave that task to me; and contradict nothing that you may hear me
      state. I have my motives for all I do and all I say—motives so grave, so important, that, did
      you know them all, you would applaud and not doubt me. And now are you satisfied?"  
  "Perfectly," returned Filippo: "I will not ask another question, nor hesitate another
      moment."  
  "My everlasting gratitude is your due," said Ellen. "And now, one more favour have I to
      ask."  
  "Name it," answered the Italian.  
  "Give me one of your pistols."  
  "But, Miss Monroe—"  
  "Pray do not refuse me! I am not a coward; and I must inform you that I learnt to fire a
      pistol at the theatre."  
  The Italian handed the young lady one of his loaded weapons.  
  She concealed it beneath the breast of her coat; and her heart palpitated with pride and
      satisfaction.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  
  CHAPTER CV. THE COMBAT.  
  IN spite of the suspicions entertained by Mr. Monroe and Ellen concerning the genuineness of
      the appointment for which Markham was engaged, the young man was too devotedly attached to the
      memory of his brother not to indulge in the most wild and sanguine hopes.  
  Thus, as he proceeded to the place of meeting near Twig Folly, he communed with himself in
      the following manner:—  
  "If my brother be involved in pecuniary difficulties,—or if he have committed any
      imprudence, from the results of which money may release him,—how gladly will I dispose of the
      remainder of my small income—how joyfully will I devote all I possess to aid him! And then,
      when I have no other resources, I will open the mysterious document which Thomas Armstrong
      placed in my hands ere he breathed his last; and I feel convinced that I shall at least
      receive therefrom good advice—if not pecuniary succour—to guide me in future. O Eugene! is it
      possible that I am now about to meet you once more? On the 10th of July, 1831, did we part on
      the summit of the hill which overlooks the mansion of our ancestors. This is the 2d of
      January, 1840. Eight years and a half have now elapsed since the day of our separation. Ah! I
      know the proud—the haughty—the independent disposition of my brother! Were he prosperous—were
      he successful in his pursuits, (be those pursuits what they may,) he would not seek me now. He
      would wait until the accomplishment of the twelve years: he would not seek me until the 10th
      of July, 1843.   Then   should we compare notes, and ascertain who was the more
      prosperous! Yes—this would be my brother's mode of conduct. And therefore he is unhappy—he is
      unfortunate, that he seeks me ere the time be elapsed: he is perhaps poor—in want—who knows?
      Oh! how sincerely I hope that this is no delusion; that my unfortunate star will not pursue me
      even unto the point of so terrible a disappointment! No—I feel that this is no deception—that
      Eugene indeed awaits me. Who could wish to injure   me  ? who would desire to take
         my   life? who could hope to obtain a treasure by laying a plot to rob   me   is a genuine one: I am about to meet my brother Eugene!"  
  Such were the meditations of Richard Markham as he proceeded towards the place of
      appointment. He was considerably before his time; for hope cannot brook delay.  
  When he reached the banks of the canal, he was struck by the lonely and deserted nature of
      the spot. The sward was damp and marshy with the late heavy rains: the canal was swollen, and
      rolled, muddy and dark, between its banks, the pale and sickly moon vainly wooing its bosom to
      respond to the caresses of its beams by a reflective kiss.  
  The bank on which Markham now walked backwards and forwards, and which constituted the verge
      of the region of Globe Town, was higher than the opposite one; and the canal, swollen by the
      rains, had deluged many parts of that latter shore.  
  In the place where Markham now found himself, several ditches and sluices had been cut; and
      these, added to the uneven and swampy nature of the soil, rendered his ramble in that quarter
      not only unpleasant, but even dangerous.  
  Nevertheless, Markham continued to pace backwards and forwards on the bank where he expected
      to meet one who was so dear to him.  
  He had been at his post about half an hour when footsteps suddenly fell upon his ears.  
  He stopped, and listened.  
  The steps approached; and in a few moments he beheld, through the obscurity of the night, a
      person advancing towards him.  
  "True to your appointment, sir," said the individual, when he came up to the spot where
      Richard was standing.  
  "I told you that I should not fail," answered Markham, who had immediately recognised the
      voice of the man that had borne him the message making the present appointment. "But what of
      my brother? will he come? is he near? Speak!"  
  "He will be here in a few moments," said the man, who, as our readers well know, was none
      other than the Buffer.  
  "Are you sure?" demanded Markham. "Why has he sent you first? could he suspect treachery
      from his own brother?"  
  "Not a bit of it," replied the Buffer. "Only—but here he comes, sure enow."  
  Approaching footsteps were heard; and in a minute or two another form emerged from the gloom
      of night.  
  Markham's heart palpitated violently.  
  "Here is your brother, sir," said the Buffer.  
  "Eugene—dear Eugene!" cried Richard, springing forward to catch his brother in his arms.  
  "Brother indeed!" muttered the ominous voice of the Resurrection Man; and at the same moment
      Richard was pinioned from behind by the Buffer, who skilfully wove a cord around his arms, and
      fastened his elbows together.  
  "Villains!" ejaculated Richard, struggling with all his might—but vainly, for the
      Resurrection Man, whose voice he had immediately recognised but too well, threw him violently
      upon the damp sod.  
  "Now, my lad," cried the Resurrection Man, "your fate is decided. In a few minutes you'll be
      at the bottom of the canal, and then—"  
  He said no more—for at that moment another person appeared upon the scene; and, quick as
      thought, the Resurrection Man was felled by the butt end of a pistol.  
  But the instant the miscreant touched the ground, he caught a desperate hold of the person
      who had so suddenly and unexpectedly appeared upon the spot; and Filippo—for it was he—also
      rolled on the damp sward.  
  The Resurrection Man leapt upon him, and caught hold of his throat with such savage
      violence, that the Italian would have been suffocated in a few moments, had not the flash of a
      pistol close by the head of the Resurrection Man turned the fortune of the combat.  
  The pistol so aimed only flashed in the pan; but the sudden glare singed the Resurrection
      Man's hair, and caused him to abandon his victim and spring upon his feet with an alacrity
      that resembled a galvanic effect.  
  The Buffer, alarmed by the first attack on the part of Filippo, had relinquished his hold of
      the rope that confined Richard's arms; and Markham, encouraged by this sudden and unexpected
      assistance, disengaged himself from the coil with the rapidity of lightning. He then sprang
      upon the Buffer, hurled him to the ground, and, placing his knee upon the ruffian's chest,
      kept him fast in that prostrate condition on the very verge of the canal.  
  The Resurrection Man, with eagle glance, beheld the situation of affairs. He saw his
      confederate powerless, and desperate odds leagued against himself—for, in the darkness of the
      night, he could not observe that one of his opponents was a female in disguise.  
  The moment that he sprang from the ground, in consequence of the flash of the pistol close
      by his ear, he cast this comprehensive look over the field of action.  
  There was no time for hesitation.  
  Pushing Ellen violently aside, and dashing Filippo furiously back again upon the ground from
      which he was rising, the Resurrection Man darted upon Richard Markham.  
  In another moment there was a splash of water: a cry of horror issued from the lips of
      Ellen; the Resurrection Man shouted "Run! run!"—but neither the young lady nor Filippo thought
      of interrupting the flight of the miscreants.  
  "The villains!—they have drowned him!" exclaimed Filippo; and, without an instant's
      hesitation, he plunged into the canal.  
  "Brave man!" cried Ellen. "Save him—oh! save him!"  
  As she uttered these words, she stumbled over the coil of rope which had been used to
      confine Markham's hands, and which the miscreants had left behind them.  
  Instantly twining one end round her delicate wrist, she cast the other into the canal; and
      creeping so far down the bank as nearly to touch the water, she exclaimed, "Here is a rope,
      Filippo: Richard, try and catch the rope. Speak, Filippo—can you save him? If not, I will
      myself plunge into the stream—and—"  
  "He is lost—he is gone!" said Filippo, who was swimming about on the surface of the water as
      skilfully as if it were his native element.  
  "Oh, God! do not say that! do not—"  
  "I see him—I see him, Miss—yonder—down the stream—struggling desperately—"  
  At that moment a faint cry for help echoed over the bosom of the canal.  
  Ellen scrambled up the bank, and darted along the margin with the speed of the fawn,
      dragging the long coil of rope after her.  
    
  But Filippo had already gained that part of the stream; and Ellen directed him with her
      voice to the spot where the object had sunk.  
  The brave Italian, though well-nigh exhausted, dived fearlessly; and to the infinite joy of
      Ellen, re-appeared upon the surface, exclaiming, "He is saved—he is saved!"  
  Supporting Markham's head above the water, Filippo swam to the bank; and, aided by Ellen and
      the rope, succeeded in landing his burden as well as himself.  
  Markham was insensible; but Filippo placed his hand upon the young man's breast, and said,
      "He lives!"  
  "Heaven be thanked!" ejaculated Ellen, solemnly.  
  She then chafed his temples; while the Italian rubbed the palms of his hands.  
  In a few minutes Richard moaned.  
  The attentions of those who hung over him were redoubled; and Filippo was about to propose
      to convey him to the nearest dwelling, when he gasped violently, and murmured, "Where am
      I?"  
  "Saved!" answered Ellen. "None but friends are near you."  
  A quarter of an hour had not elapsed from the moment that he was rescued from the water,
      when he was so far recovered as to sit up on the bank; and all fears on the part of Ellen
      relative to his complete resuscitation had vanished.  
  "Ellen—is that you? can this be you? was it your voice that I heard?" he said, in a faint
      tone: "or is it a vision?"  
  "It is no vision, Richard—it is indeed Ellen, who owes you so much, and who has been the
      humble instrument—aided by this brave man—of saving your life."  
  "And who is this brave man?" asked Markham. "Tell me his name, that I may pour forth my
      gratitude to him, as well as to you, kind Ellen—my sister!"  
  "His sister!" murmured Ellen; while an emotion, like an electric shock, agitated her to the
      very heart's core.  
  But those words—"his sister!"—were not heard by either Markham or Filippo.  
  "Do not fatigue yourself by speaking now," said Ellen, after a moment's pause. "Suffice it
      for the present to tell you that I was afraid of treachery towards you—I had my misgivings—a
      presentiment of evil haunted me! I owed you so much, that I was determined to watch over your
      safety—weak and powerless as I am. Hence this strange attire. Fortunately I met this brave
      man—a total stranger to me—near the spot; and, when I communicated my object to him, he
      generously offered to bear me company."  
  "Excellent girl!—generous stranger!" cried Richard; "I owe you my life. Oh! how can I ever
      express my gratitude?"  
  "We must not speak on that subject now, sir," said Filippo. "The chief point to be
      considered is how to get you home."  
  "And he lives so far from here, too," hastily exclaimed Ellen, laying her hand at the same
      time, but unseen by Markham, on Filippo's arm.  
  The Italian took the hint, which was to remind him that he must not seem to know the place
      of residence, or indeed any other particular concerning the affairs, of Richard Markham.  
  "Oh! this bitter disappointment—this vile treachery!" cried the young man, whose thoughts
      were now reflected back to the cause of the perils from which he had just escaped.  
  "Compose yourself," said Ellen, with peculiar and touching kindness of manner: "compose
      yourself, Richard; and do not excite yourself by unpleasant reflections. Let us rather think
      how we are to convey you home. There is no vehicle to be obtained in this neighbourhood."  
  "I feel myself able to walk," said Markham,—"at least as far as the nearest place where we
      can procure conveyance."  
  "Wrap yourself up in my cloak," cried Filippo. "It is close at hand—I took it off and
      concealed it under yonder tree, before the conflict began."  
  Filippo hastened to fetch the cloak, in which Markham enveloped himself.  
  Then, leaning on the arms of those to whom he was indebted for his rescue from the murderous
      designs of his enemies, he walked slowly away from the spot where he had hoped to meet a
      brother, but where he had encountered fiends in human shape.  
  In this manner they traversed Globe Town, and reached Bethnal Green New Church. In that
      neighbourhood they procured a cab, into which Markham and Ellen stepped.  
  "I shall now take leave of you, sir," said Filippo; "and I most sincerely hope that you will
      soon recover from the effects of this night's maltreatment."  
  "Generous man!" cried Markham, "tell me your name that I may—"  
  But Filippo had already disappeared.  
  "How strange!" said Markham. "That noble-hearted foreigner makes light of his own good
      deeds. He has left me no opportunity of expressing my gratitude more fully than by mere
      words."  
  "He is evidently a man of lofty feelings and generous disposition," observed Ellen calmly.
      "It was fortunate that I happened to encounter him in that lonely spot."  
  She then informed the driver whither he was to proceed; and the vehicle rolled quickly
      away.  
  
  CHAPTER CVI. THE GRAVE-DIGGER.  
  THREE days after the events related in the preceding chapter,—and at that hour in the cold
      wintry morning when the dawn breaks in fitful gleams through a dense atmosphere of a dark
      neutral dye,—a labouring-man, with a shovel and pickaxe upon his shoulder, entered one of the
      cemeteries in the immediate vicinity of Globe Lane.  
  This cemetery was only partly enclosed by houses; on the remaining sides there was a low
      wall.  
  The soil was damp; and a nauseous odour, emanating from it, impregnated the air. When the
      sun lay for several days upon the place, even in the depth of winter,—and invariably
      throughout the summer,—the stench was so intolerable that not a dwelling in the neighbourhood
      was seen with a window open. Nevertheless, that sickly, fetid odour penetrated into every
      house, and every room, and every inhabited nook or corner, in that vicinity; and the clothes
      of the poor inmates smelt, and their food tasted, of the damp grave!  
   Still the cemetery was kept open for interments; and when there was no room for
      a new-comer, some recently-buried tenant of a grave was exhumed to afford the required
      space.  
  In one part of the ground was a rude brick-building, denominated a Bone-House. This hovel
      was provided with a large fire-place; and seldom did a day pass without smoke being seen to
      issue from the chimney. On those occasions,—when the furnace was lighted,—the stench from the
      cemetery was always more powerful than at other times.  
  Some of the poor inhabitants of the adjoining houses had remonstrated with the parochial
      authorities on the subject of this nuisance being tolerated; but the only reply the applicants
      could obtain was, "Well, prefer an indictment at the sessions, if you don't like it!"  
  The idea of men in the receipt of eight or ten shillings a week preferring an indictment!
      Such a process is only accessible to those possessed of ample means; for the legislature has
      purposely rendered law,—that is, the power of obtaining justice, enforcing rights, or
      suppressing nuisances,—a luxury attainable only by money. The poor, indeed! who ever thought
      of legislating for the poor? Legislate   against   them, and it is all well and good:
      heap statute upon statute—pile act upon act—accumulate measure upon measure—encumber the most
      simple forms with the most intricate technicalities—diversify readings and expand in verbiage
      until the sense becomes unintelligible—convert the whole legal scheme into a cunning web, so
      that the poor man cannot walk three steps without entangling his foot in one of those meshes
      of whose very existence he was previously unaware, and whose nature he cannot comprehend even
      when involved therein;—do all this, and you are a wise and sound statesman; for this is
      legislating   against   the poor—and who, we repeat, would ever think of legislating
         for   them?  
  But to continue.  
  The grave-digger entered the cemetery, and cast a glance around him.  
  That glance well expressed the man's thoughts; for he mentally asked himself, "Whose grave
      must I disturb now to make room for the new one?"  
  At length he advanced towards a particular spot, considered it for a moment, and then struck
      his spade into the soil, as much as to say, "This will do."  
  The place where he had now halted was only a few yards from the Bone-House. Taking a key
      from his pocket, he proceeded to unlock the door of that building.  
  Entering the Bone-House he took from amongst a quantity of implements in one corner, a long
      flexible iron rod similar to those which we have already described as being used by the
      body-snatchers.  
  Returning to the grave, he thrust the rod into the ground. It met with a little resistance
      from some substance a little harder than the soil; but the man pushed it downwards with a
      strong arm; and it sank at least twelve feet into the ground.  
  Satisfied with this essay of the nature of the spot, the grave-digger drew back the rod; and
      from the deep but narrow aperture thus formed, issued a stench more pestiferous than that
      which ever came from the lowest knacker's yard.  
  The man retreated rapidly to the Bone-House; that odour was too powerful even for one who
      had passed the greater portion of his life in that very grave-yard.  
  He now proceeded to light a fire in the Bone-House; and when he saw the huge logs which he
      heaped on the grate, blazing brightly, he covered them with coke. The current of air from the
      open door fanned the flames, which roared up the chimney; and the grave-digger felt
      invigorated and cheered by the genial warmth that issued from the ample grate.  
  After lingering for a few minutes in the Bone-House, the grave-digger returned to the spot
      which he had previously marked for excavation.  
  Baring his brawny arms to the very shoulders, he now set himself vigorously to work to dig
      the grave which was to receive a new-comer that afternoon.  
  Throwing the earth up on either side, he had digged to a depth of about two feet, when his
      spade encountered a coffin. He immediately took his pickaxe, broke the coffin to pieces, and
      then separated with his shovel the pieces of wood and the human bones from the damp earth. The
      coffin was already so soft with decay that the iron rod had penetrated through it without much
      difficulty; and it therefore required but little exertion to break it up altogether.  
  But the odour which came from the grave was now of the most nauseating kind—fetid, sickly,
      pestiferous—making the atmosphere heavy, and the human breath thick and clammy, as it were—and
      causing even that experienced grave-digger to retch as if he were about to vomit.  
  Leaping from the grave, he began to busy himself in conveying the pieces of the broken
      coffin and the putrid remains of mortality into the Bone-House, where he heaped them pell-mell
      upon the fire.  
  The flesh had not completely decayed all away from the bones; a thick, black, fatty-looking
      substance still covered those human relics; and the fire was thus fed with a material which
      made the flames roar and play half up the chimney.  
  And from the summit of that chimney came a smoke—thick, dense, and dark, like the smoke of a
      gasometer or a manufactory, but bearing on its sable wing the odour of a pestilence.  
  The man returned to the grave, and was about to resume his labour, when his eyes caught
      sight of a black object, almost embedded in the damp clay heaped up by the side. He turned it
      over with his spade: it was the upper part of the skull, with the long, dark hair of a woman
      still remaining attached to it. The grave-digger coolly took up the relic by that long hair
      which perhaps had once been a valued ornament; and, carrying it in this manner into the
      Bone-House, threw it upon the fire. The hair hissed for a moment as it burnt, for it was damp
      and clogged with clay; then the voracious flames licked up the thin coat of blackened flesh
      which had still remained on the skull; and lastly devoured the bone itself.  
  The grave-digger returned to his toils; and at a depth of scarcely one foot below the coffin
      thus exhumed and burnt, his shovel was again impeded for a moment—and by another coffin!  
  Once more was the pickaxe put into requisition: a second coffin was broken up; another
      decomposing, but not entirely decomposed, corpse was hacked, and hewed, and rent to pieces by
      the merciless implement which was wielded by a merciless arm;—and in a few moments, the fire
      in the Bone-House burnt cheerfully once more, the mouth of the chimney vomiting forth its
      dense and pest-bearing breath, the volume of which was from time to time lighted with sparks
      and flakes of fire.  
    
  And then fond, surviving relations and friends speak of the   last home   and the
         quiet resting-place   of the deceased: they talk with affectionate reverence of those
      who   sleep in the grave  , and they grow pathetic in their eulogies of the   tranquil
       slumber of the tomb  !  
  Poor deluded creatures! While they are thus engaged in innocent discourse,—a discourse that
      affords them solace when they ponder upon the loss which they have sustained,—the   last
       home   is invaded—the   quiet resting-place   is rudely awakened with sacrilegious
      echoes—the   sleep of the grave   is disturbed by the thunder of a pickaxe—and the corpse
      is snatched from the   tranquil slumber of the tomb   to be cast into the all-devouring
      furnace of the Bone-House.  
  The grave-digger proceeded in his task; and a third coffin was speedily encountered. Each
      successive one was more decayed than that which had preceded it; and thus the labour of
      breaking them up diminished in severity.  
  But the destination of one and all was the same—the fire of the Bone-House.  
  No wonder that the cemetery continued to receive so many fresh tenants, although the
      neighbours knew that it must be full:—no wonder that the stench was always more pestiferous
      when the furnace of the Bone-House was lighted!  
  And that man—that grave-digger performed his task—his odious task—without compunction, and
      without remorse: he was fulfilling the commands of his employers—his employers were his
      superiors—and "surely his superiors must know what was right and what was wrong!"  
  And so the grave-digger worked and toiled—and the fire in the Bone-House burnt
      cheerfully—and the dark, thick smoke was borne over the whole neighbourhood, like a
      plague-cloud.  
  Two hours had passed away since the man had commenced his work; and he now felt hungry.  
  Retiring to the Bone-House, he took a coffee-pot from the shelf, and proceeded to make some
      coffee, the material for which was in a cupboard in a corner of the building. Water he took
      from a large pitcher, also kept in that foul place; and bread he had brought with him in his
      pockets.  
  He drew a stool close to the fire; and, when the coffee boiled, commenced his meal.  
  The liquid cheered and refreshed him; but he never once recollected that it had been heated
      by flames fed with human flesh and bones!  
  While he was thus occupied, he heard footsteps approaching the Bone-House; and in a few
      moments Mr. Banks, the undertaker, appeared upon the threshold.  
  "Mornin', sir," said the grave-digger. "Come to have a look at the size of the grave,
      s'pose? You've no call to be afeard; I'll be bound to make it big enow."  
  "I hope it won't be a very deep one, Jones," returned the undertaker. "Somehow or another
      the friends of the blessed defunct are awerse to a deep grave."  
  "My orders is to dig down sixteen feet and shore up the sides as I deepens," said Jones.
      "Don't you see that I shall throw the earth on wery light, so that it won't take scarcely no
      trouble to shovel it out agin; 'cos the next seven as comes to this ground must all go into
      that there grave."  
  "Sixteen feet!" ejaculated the undertaker, in dismay. "It will never do, Jones. The friends
      of the dear deceased wouldn't sleep quiet in their beds if they thought he had to sleep so
      deep in his'n. It won't do, Jones—it won't do."  
  "My orders is sich from the proprietors, sir," answered the grave-digger, munching and
      drinking at intervals with considerable calmness.  
  "Now I tell you what it is, Jones," continued the undertaker, after a moment's pause, "not
      another grave will I ever order in this ground, and not another carkiss that I undertake shall
      come here, unless you choose to comply with my wishes concerning this blessed old
      defunct."  
  "Well, Mr. Banks, there isn't a gen'leman wot undertakes in all Globe Town, or from Bonner's
      Fields down to Mile End Gate, that I'd sooner obleege than yourself," said Jones, the
      grave-digger; "but if so be I transgresses my orders—"  
  "Who will know it?" interrupted Banks. "You have whole and sole charge of the ground; and it
      can't be often that the proprietors come to trouble you."  
  "Well, sir, there is summut in that—"  
  "And then, instead of five shillings for yourself, I should not hesitate to make it
      ten—"  
  "That's business, Mr. Banks. How deep must the grave be?"  
  "How deep is it already?"  
  "A matter of nine feet, sir," said Jones.  
  "Then not another hinch must you move," cried the undertaker, emphatically; "and here's the
      ten bob as an earnest."  
  Mr. Banks accordingly counted ten shillings into the hands of the grave-digger.  
  "When's the funeral a-coming, sir?" asked Jones, after a pause.  
  "At two precisely," replied Mr. Banks.  
  "Rale parson, or von of your men as usual?" continued the grave-digger, inquiringly.  
  "Oh, a friend of mine—a wery pious, savoury, soul-loving wessel, Jones—a man that it'll do
      your heart good to hear. But, I say, Jones," added the undertaker, "you're getting uncommon
      full here."  
  "Yes, full enow, sir; but I makes room."  
  "I see you do," said Banks, glancing towards the fire: "what a offensive smell it
      makes."  
  "And would you believe that I can scarcely support it myself sometimes, Mr. Banks?" returned
      Jones. "But, arter all, our ground isn't so bad as some others in London."  
  "I know it isn't," observed the undertaker.  
  "Now ain't it a odd thing, sir," continued the grave-digger, "that persons which dwells up
      in decent neighbourhoods like, and seems exceedin' proud of their fine houses and handsome
      shops, shouldn't notice the foul air that comes from places only hid by a low wail or a thin
      paling?"  
  "It is indeed odd enough," said Mr. Banks.  
  "Well, I knows the diggers in some o' the yards more west," continued Jones, "and I've heerd
      from them over and over agin that they pursues just the wery same course as we does here—has a
      Bone-House or some such conwenient place, and burns the coffins and bones that is turned
      up."  
  "I suppose it is necessary, Jones?" observed Mr. Banks.  
  "Necessary, sir? in course it be," exclaimed the grave-digger. "On'y fancy wot a lot of
      burials takes place every year in London; and room must be made for 'em somehow or other."  
   creeturs is thirty-five years; so, if London contains a million and a half of
      people, a million and a half of persons dies, and is buried in the course of every thirty-five
      years. Isn't that a fine thing for them that's in the undertaking line? 'cause it's quite
      clear that there's a million and a half of funerals in every thirty-five years in this blessed
      city."  
  "And a million and a half of graves or waults rekvired," said Jones. "Well, then, who the
      deuce can blame us for burning up the old 'uns to make room for the new 'uns?"  
  "Who, indeed?" echoed Mr. Banks. "T'other day I had an undertaking, which was buried in Enon
      Chapel, Saint Clement's Lane,—down there by Lincoln's Inn, you know. The chapel's surrounded
      by houses, all okkipied by poor people, and the stench is horrid. The fact is, that the
      chapel's divided into two storeys: the upper one is the preaching place; and the underneath
      one is the burial place. There's only a common boarded floor to separate 'em. You go down by a
      trap-door in the floor; and pits is dug below for the coffins. Why, at one end the place is so
      full, that the coffins is piled up till they touch the ceiling—that is, the floor of the
      chapel itself, and there's only a few inches of earth over 'em. The common sewer runs through
      the place; so, what with that and the coffins and carkisses, it's a nice hole."  
  "Wuss than this?" said Jones.  
  "Of course it is," returned Banks; "'cause at all ewents this   is   out in the open
      air, while t'other's shut up and close. But I'll tell you what it is, Jones," continued the
      undertaker, sinking his voice as if he were afraid of being overheard by a stranger, "the
      people that lives in that densely-populated quarter about Saint Clement's Lane, exists in the
      midst of a pestilence. Why they breathe nothing but the putrid stench of the Enon
      burial-place, the Green Ground in Portugal Street, and the Alms-House burying ground down at
      the bottom of the Lane."  
  "All that'll breed a plague von o' these days in the werry middle of London," observed
      Jones.  
  "Not a doubt of it," said the undertaker. "But I haven't done yet all I had to say about
      that quarter. Wery soon after a burial takes place at Enon Chapel, a queer-looking, long,
      narrow, black fly crawls out of the coffin. It is a production of the putrefaction of the dead
      body. But what do you think? Next season this fly is succeeded by another kind of insect just
      like the common bug, and with wings. The children that go to Sunday-school at the Chapel calls
      'em '  body bugs  .' Them insects is seen all through the summer flying or crawling about
      the Chapel. All the houses that overlooks the Chapel is infested with rats; and if a poor
      creetur only hangs a bit of meat out of his window in the summer time, in a few hours it grows
      putrid."  
  "Well, Mr. Banks, sir," said Jones, after reflecting profoundly for some moments, "it's wery
      lucky that you ain't one o' them chaps which writes books and nonsense."  
  "Why so, Jones?"  
  "'Cos if you was to print all that you've been tellin' me, you'd make the fortunes of them
      new cemetries that's opened all round London, and the consekvence would be that the grounds
         in   London would have to shut up shop."  
  "Very true, Jones. But what I'm saying to you now is only in confidence, and by way of chat.
      Why, do you know that the people round about the burying grounds in London—this one as well as
      any other—have seen the walls of their rooms covered at times with a sort of thick fatty
      fluid, which produces a smell that's quite horrid! Look at that burying place in Drury Lane.
      It's so full of blessed carkisses, that the ground is level with the first-floor windows of
      the houses round it."  
  "Well, it's a happy thing to know that the world don't trouble themselves with these here
      matters," said Jones. "Thank God! in my ground I clears and clears away, coffins and bodies
      both alike, as quick as I turns 'em up. Lord! what a sight of coffin nails I sells every month
      to the marine-store dealers; and yet people passes by them shops and sees second-hand coffin
      furniture put out for sale, never thinks of how it got there, and where it come from."  
  "Of course they don't," cried Banks. "What the devil do you think would become of a many
      trades if people always wondered, and wondered how they supported theirselves?"  
  "You speaks like a book, Mr. Banks, sir," said Jones. "Arter all, I've often thought wot a
      fool I am not to sell the coffin-wood for fuel, as most other grave-diggers does in grounds
      that's obleeged to be cleared of the old 'uns to make room for the new 'uns. But, I say, Mr.
      Banks, sir, I've often been going to ask you a question about summut, and I've   always  
      forgot it; but talkin' of these things puts me in mind of it. What's the reason, sir, that
      gen'lemen in the undertaking line wery often bores holes right through the coffins?"  
  "That's what we call '  tapping the coffin  ,' Jones," answered Mr. Banks; "and we do
      it whenever a body's going to remain at home two or three days with the coffin-lid screwed
      down, before the funeral takes place. Poor people generally buries on Sunday: well, p'raps the
      coffin's took home on Wednesday or Thursday, and then the body's put in and the lid's screwed
      tight down at once to save trouble when Sunday comes. Then we tap the coffin to let out the
      gas; cause there   is   a gas formed by the decomposition of dead bodies."  target="#ENG18460_N081" [81]    
  "Well, all that's a cut above me," said Jones. "And now I must get back to work—"  
  "Not at   that   grave, mind," interrupted the undertaker. "It musn't be another hinch
      deeper."  
  "Not a bit, sir—I ain't a goin' to touch it: but I've got another place to open; so here
      goes."  
  With these words the grave-digger rose from his seat, and walked slowly out of the
      Bone-House.  
  "At two o'clock, Jones, I shall be here with the funeral," said Mr. Banks.  
  "Wery good, sir," returned Jones.  
  The undertaker then left the burial-ground; and the grave-digger proceeded to open another
      pit.  
  
  CHAPTER CVII. A DISCOVERY.  
  AT two o'clock precisely the funeral entered the cemetery.  
   coffin, over which was thrown a scanty pall, full of holes, and so ragged at the
      edges that it seemed as if it were embellished with a fringe.  
  Mr. Banks, with a countenance expressing only a moderate degree of grief, attended as a
      mourner, accompanied by the surgeon and the Buffer. The truth is that Mr. Banks had a
      graduated scale of funeral expressions of countenance. When he was uncommonly well paid, his
      physiognomy denoted a grief more poignant than that of even the nearest relatives of the
      deceased: when he was indifferently paid, as he considered himself to be in the present case,
      he could not afford tears, although he was not so economical as to dispense with a white
      pocket-handkerchief.  
  In front of the procession walked the Resurrection Man, clad in a surplice of dingy hue, and
      holding an enormous prayer-book in his hand. This miscreant performed one of the most holy—one
      of the most sacred of religious rites!  
  Start not, gentle reader! This is no exaggeration—no extravagance on our part. In all the
      poor districts in London, the undertakers have their own men to solemnise the burial rites of
      those who die in poverty, or who have no friends to superintend their passage to the
      grave.  
  The Resurrection Man,—a villain stained with every crime—a murderer of the blackest dye—a
      wretch whose chief pursuit was the violation of the tomb,—the Resurrection Man read the
      funeral service over   the unknown   who was now consigned to the grave.  
  The ceremony ended; and Jones hastened to throw the earth back again into the grave.  
  The surgeon exchanged a few words with the Resurrection Man, and then departed towards his
      home.  
  Mr. Banks and the Buffer accompanied the Resurrection Man to his own abode, where they found
      a copious repast ready to be served up to them by the Rattlesnake. The Buffer's wife was also
      there; and the party sat down with a determination to enjoy themselves.  
  To accomplish this most desirable aim there were ample means. A huge round of beef smoked
      upon the board, flanked with sundry pots of porter; and on a side-table stood divers bottles
      of "Booth's best."  
  "Well," said Mr. Banks, "the worst part now is over. We have got the body under ground—"  
  "And we must soon get it up again," added the Resurrection Man drily. "You are sure the old
      woman put the money in the coffin?"  
  "I see her do it," answered the undertaker. "She wrapped it up in a old stocking which
      belonged to the blessed defunct—"  
  "Blessed defunct indeed!" said the Rattlesnake, with a coarse laugh.  
  "You see, ma'am, I can't divest myself of my professional lingo," observed Mr. Banks. "It
      comes natural to me now. But as I was a saying, I see the old woman wrap the thirty-one quids
      up in the toe of a stocking, and put it on his breast—"  
  "On the shroud, or underneath?" demanded the Resurrection Man eagerly.  
  "Underneath," replied Banks: "I took good care of that. I knowed very well that you'd want
      to draw the body up by the head, and that the money must be so placed as to come along with
      it."  
  "Of course," said the Buffer; "or else we should have to dig out all the earth, and break
      open the lid of the coffin; and that takes twice as long as to do the job t' other way."  
  "At what time is the sawbones coming down to the grave-yard?" asked Banks.  
  "He isn't coming at all," returned the Resurrection Man: "but I promised that we would be at
      his place at half-past one o'clock to-night."  
  "Too early!" exclaimed the Buffer. "We can't think of beginning work 'afore twelve. The
      place ain't quiet till then."  
  "Well, and an hour will do the business," said the Resurrection Man. "Besides, the saw-bones
      will set up for us. Now then, Meg, clear away, and let's have the blue ruin and hot water. I
      must just write a short note to a gentleman with whom I have a little business of a private
      nature; and you can run and take it to the post presently."  
  The Resurrection Man seated himself at a little side-table, and penned a hasty letter, which
      he folded, sealed, and addressed to "  Arthur Chichester, Esq.  ,   Cambridge Heath,
       near Hackney  ."  
  Margaret Flathers took it to the post-office, which was in the immediate neighbourhood.  
  On her return, the Resurrection Man said, "Now you and Moll try your hands at some
      punch,—and make it pretty stiff too—just as you like it yourselves."  
  This command was obeyed; and the three men betook themselves to their pipes, while the women
      set to work to brew a mighty jorum of gin-punch in an earthenware pitcher that held about a
      gallon and a half. The potent beverage was speedily served up; and the conversation grew
      animated. Even the moroseness of the Resurrection Man partially gave way before the
      exhilarating fluid; and he narrated a variety of incidents connected with the pursuits of his
      criminal career.  
  Then the women sang songs, and Mr. Banks told a number of anecdotes showing how he was
      enabled to undertake funerals at a cheaper rate than many of his competitors, because he had
      always taken care to league himself with body-snatchers, to whom he gave information of a
      nature serviceable to them, and for which they were well contented to pay a handsome price.
      Thus, whenever he was intrusted with the interment of a corpse which he fancied would make a
      "good subject," he communicated with his friends the resurrectionists, and in a night or two
      the body was exhumed for the benefit of some enterprising surgeon.  
  In this manner the time slipped away;—hour after hour passed; supper was served up; "another
      glass, and another pipe," was the order of the evening; and although these three men sate
      drinking and smoking to an immoderate degree, they rose from their chairs, at half-past eleven
      o'clock, but little the worse for their debauch.  
  The Resurrection Man filled a flask with pure gin, and consigned it to his pocket.  
  "We must now be off," he said. "You, Banks, can go home and get the cart ready: the Buffer
      and me will go our way."  
  "At what time shall I come with the cart?" demanded the undertaker.  
  "At a quarter past one to a second—neither more nor less," answered Tidkins.  
  Banks then took his departure.  
  "Are you going to stay here with Meg, or what?" asked the Buffer of his wife.  
  "I shall go to bed," said the Rattlesnake hastily. "Tony can take the key with him."  
    
  The Buffer's wife accordingly took her leave.  
  "Now come, Jack," said the Resurrection Man. "We have no time to lose. There's the tools to
      get out."  
  The two men descended the stairs, and issued from the house. They hastened up the little
      alley: the Resurrection Man opened the door of the ground-floor rooms; and they entered that
      part of the house together.  
  "Bustle about," said Tidkins, when they found themselves in the front room; and having
      lighted a candle, he hastily gathered together the implements which they required.  
  Laden with the tools, the two men were about to leave the room, when the Buffer suddenly
      exclaimed, "What the devil was that? I could have sworn I heard some one moaning."  
  "Nonsense," said the Resurrection Man; but, as he spoke, he observed by the glare of the
      candle, that the countenance of his companion had suddenly become ashy pale.  
  "Well, I never was more deceived in my life," observed the Buffer.  
  "You certainly never was," answered the Resurrection Man: then, hastily extinguishing the
      light, he pushed the Buffer into the alley, and locked the door carefully behind himself.  
  The two body-snatchers then proceeded to the scene of their midnight labour.  
  We must take leave of them for a short space, and follow the movements of the
      Rattlesnake.  
  It was not without an object that this woman had got rid of the company of the Buffer's
      wife, by declaring that she was about to retire to rest.  
  She permitted ten minutes to elapse after the Resurrection Man and his companion had left
      the room; then, deeming that sufficient time had been allowed for them to provide themselves
      with the implements necessary for their night's work, she started from her chair,
      involuntarily exclaiming aloud, "Now for the great secret!"  
  From an obscure corner of a shelf in the bed-room she drew forth a bunch of skeleton keys,
      which she had procured on the preceding day.  
  She then provided herself with a dark-lantern, and descended to the alley.  
  In five minutes she lighted upon a key, after many vain attempts with the others, which
      turned in the lock. The door opened, and she entered the ground floor.  
  Having closed the door, she immediately proceeded into the back room, the appearance of
      which was the same as when she last visited it. The mysterious cloak and mask were there; but
      in the cupboard, which was before empty, were now a loaf and a bottle of water.  
  "Then there   is   a human being concealed somewhere hereabouts!" she said to herself:
      "or else why that food! And it must have been the supply of bread and water that I saw
         him   put into his basket the other night."  
  She listened; but no sound fell upon her ear. Then she carefully examined the room, to
      discover any trap-door or secret means of communication with a dungeon or subterranean place.
      She knew, by the situation of the house in respect to those on either side of it, that there
      could be no inner room level with the ground-floor; she therefore felt convinced that if there
      were any secret chamber or cell connected with the premises, it must be underneath.  
  She scrutinized every inch of the floor, and could perceive no signs of a trap-door. The
      boards were all firm and tight. She advanced towards the chimney, which was divested of its
      grate; and suddenly she felt the hearth-stone move with a slight oscillation beneath her
      feet.  
  Her countenance became animated with joy; she felt convinced that her perseverance in
      examining that room was about to be rewarded.  
  She placed the lantern upon the floor, and endeavoured to raise the stone; but it seemed
      fixed in its setting, although it trembled as she touched it.  
  Still she was not disheartened. She scrutinized the boards in the immediate vicinity of the
      stone; but her search was unavailing. No evidence of a concealed lock—no trace of a secret
      spring met her eyes. Yet she was confident that she was on the right scent. As she turned
      herself round, while crawling upon her hands and knees the better to pursue her examination,
      her rustling silk dress disturbed a portion of the masonry in the chimney, where a grate had
      once been fixed.  
  A brick fell out.  
  The heart of the Rattlesnake now beat quickly.  
  She approached the lantern to the cavity left by the dislodged brick; and at the bottom of
      the recess she espied a small iron ring.  
  She pulled it without hesitation; the ring yielded to her touch, and drew out a thick wire
      to the distance of nearly a foot.  
  The Rattlesnake now tried once more to raise the stone, and succeeded. The stone was fixed
      at one end with stout iron hinges to one of the beams that supported the floor, and thus
      opened like a trap-door.  
  When raised, it disclosed a narrow flight of stone steps, at the bottom of which the most
      perfect obscurity reigned.  
  The Rattlesnake now paused—in alarm.  
  She longed to penetrate into those mysterious depths—she panted to dive into that
      subterranean darkness; but she was afraid.  
  All those terrible reminiscences which were associated with her knowledge of the
      Resurrection Man, rushed to her mind; and she trembled to descend into the vault at her feet,
      for fear she should never return.  
  These terrors were too much for her. She, moreover, recalled to mind that nearly an hour had
      now elapsed since the Resurrection Man and the Buffer had departed; and she knew not how
      speedily they might conclude their task. Besides, some unforeseen accident or sudden
      interruption might compel them to beat a retreat homewards; and she knew full well that if she
      were discovered   there  , death would be her portion.  
  She accordingly determined to postpone any further examination into the mysteries of that
      house until some further occasion.  
  Having closed the stone trap-door and replaced the brick in the wall of the chimney, she
      hastened back to the upper floor, where she speedily retired to bed.  
  We may as well observe that during the time she was in the lower room, no sound of a human
      tongue met her ears.  
  But perhaps the victim slept!  
  
  CHAPTER CVIII. THE EXHUMATION.  
  THE night was fine—frosty—and bright with the lustre of a lovely moon.  
   houses of Globe Town appeared to bathe their heads in that flood of silver
      light.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The Resurrection Man and the Buffer pursued their way towards the cemetery.  
  For some minutes they preserved a profound silence: at length the Buffer exclaimed, "I only
      hope, Tony, that this business won't turn out as bad as the job with young Markham three
      nights ago."  
  "Why should it?" demanded the Resurrection Man, in a gruff tone.  
  "Well, I don't know why," answered the Buffer. "P'rhaps, after all, it was just as well that
      feller escaped as he did. We might have swung for it."  
  "Escape!" muttered the Resurrection Man, grinding his teeth savagely. "Yes—he did escape
         then  ; but I haven't done with him yet. He shall not get off so easy another
      time."  
  "I wonder who those chaps was that come up so sudden?" observed the Buffer, after a
      pause.  
  "Friends of his, no doubt," answered Tidkins. "Most likely he suspected a trap, or thought
      he would be on the right side. But the night was so plaguy dark, and the whole thing was so
      sudden, it was impossible to form an idea of who the two strangers might be."  
  "One on 'em was precious strong, I know," said the Buffer. "But, for my part, I think you'd
      better leave the young feller alone in future. It's no good standing the chance of getting
      scragged for mere wengeance. I can't understand that sort of thing. If you like to crack his
      crib for him and hive the swag, I'm your man; but I'll have no more of a business that's all
      danger and no profit."  
  "Well, well, as you like," said the Resurrection Man, impatiently. "Here we are; so look
      alive."  
  They were now under the wall of the cemetery.  
  The Buffer clambered to the top of the wall, which was not very high; and the Resurrection
      Man handed him the implements and tools, which he dropped cautiously upon the ground inside
      the enclosure.  
  He then helped his companion upon the wall; and in another moment they stood together within
      the cemetery.  
  "Are you sure you can find the way to the right grave?" demanded the Buffer in a
      whisper.  
    
  They then shouldered their implements, and the Resurrection Man led the way to the spot
      where Mrs. Smith's anonymous lodger had been buried.  
  "I'm afeard the ground's precious hard," observed the Buffer, when he and his companion had
      satisfied themselves by a cautious glance around that no one was watching their movements.  
  The eyes of these men had become so habituated to the obscurity of night, in consequence of
      the frequency with which they pursued their avocations during the darkness which cradled
      others to rest, that they were possessed of the visual acuteness generally ascribed to the
      cat.  
  "We'll soon turn it up, let it be as hard as it will," said the Resurrection Man, in answer
      to his comrade's remark.  
  Then, suiting the action to the word, he began his operations in the following manner.  
  He measured a distance of five paces from the head of the grave. At the point thus marked he
      took a long iron rod and drove it in an oblique direction through the ground towards one end
      of the coffin. So accurate were his calculations relative to the precise spot in which the
      coffin was embedded in the earth, that the iron rod struck against it the very first time he
      thus sounded the soil.  
  "All right," he whispered to the Buffer.  
  He then took a spade and began to break up the earth just at that spot where the end of the
      iron rod peeped out of the ground.  
  "Not so hard as you thought," he observed. "The fact is, the whole burial-place is so mixed
      up with human remains, that the clay is too greasy to freeze very easy."  
  "I s'pose that's it," said the Buffer.  
  The Resurrection Man worked for about ten minutes with a skill and an effect that would have
      astonished even Jones the grave-digger himself, had he been there to see. He then resigned the
      spade to the Buffer, who took his turn with equal ardour and ability.  
  When   his   ten minutes elapsed, the resurrectionists regaled themselves each with a
      dram from Tidkins' flask; and this individual then applied himself once more to the work in
      hand. When he was wearied, the Buffer relieved him; and thus did they fairly divide the toil
      until the excavation of the ground was completed.  
  This portion of the task was finished in about forty minutes. An oblique channel, about ten
      feet long, and three feet square at the mouth, and decreasing only in length, as it verged
      towards the head of the coffin at the bottom, was now formed.  
  The Resurrection Man provided himself with a stout chisel, the handle of which was covered
      with leather, and with a mallet, the ends of which were also protected with pieces of the same
      material. Thus the former instrument when struck by the latter emitted but little noise.  
  He then descended into the channel which terminated at the very head of the coffin.  
  Breaking away the soil that lay upon that end of the coffin, he inserted the chisel into the
      joints of the wood, and in a very few moments knocked off the board that closed the coffin at
      that extremity.  
  The wood-work of the head of the shell was also removed with ease—for Banks had purposely
      nailed those parts of the two cases very slightly together.  
  The Resurrection Man next handed up the tools to his companion, who threw him down a strong
      cord.  
  The end of this rope was then fastened under the armpits of the corpse as it lay in its
      coffin.  
  This being done, the Buffer helped the Resurrection Man out of the hole.  
  "So far, so good," said Tidkins: "it must be close upon one o'clock. We have got a quarter
      of an hour left—and that's plenty of time to do all that's yet to be done."  
  The two men then took the rope between them, and drew the corpse gently out of its coffin—up
      the slope of the channel—and landed it safely on the ground at a little distance from the
      mouth of the excavation.  
  The moon fell upon the pale features of the dead—those features which were still as
      unchanged, save in colour, as if they had never come in contact with a shroud—nor belonged to
      a body that had been swathed in a winding-sheet!  
  The contrast formed by the white figure and the black soil on which it was stretched, would
      have struck terror to the heart of any one save a resurrectionist.  
  Indeed, the moment the corpse was thus dragged forth from its grave, the Resurrection Man
      thrust his hand into its breast, and felt for the gold.  
  It was there—wrapped up as the undertaker had described.  
  "The blunt is all safe, Jack," said the Resurrection Man; and he secured the coin about his
      person.  
  They then applied themselves vigorously to shovel back the earth; but, when they had filled
      up the excavation, a considerable quantity of the soil still remained to dispose of, it being
      impossible, in spite of stamping down, to condense the earth into the same space from which it
      was originally taken.  
  They therefore filled two sacks with the surplus soil, and proceeded to empty them in
      different parts of the ground.  
  Their task was so far accomplished, when they heard the low rumble of wheels in the lane
      outside the cemetery.  
  To bundle the corpse neck and heels into a sack, and gather up their implements, was the
      work of only a few moments. They then conveyed their burdens between them to the wall
      overlooking the lane, where the well-known voice of Mr. Banks greeted their ears, as he stood
      upright in his cart peering over the barrier into the cemetery.  
  "Got the blessed defunct?" said the undertaker, interrogatively.  
  "Right and tight," answered the Buffer; "and the tin too. Now, then, look sharp—here's the
      tools."  
  "I've got 'em," returned Banks.  
  "Look out for the stiff 'un, then," added the Buffer; and, aided by the Resurrection Man, he
      shoved the body up to the undertaker, who deposited it in the bottom of his cart.  
  The Resurrection Man and the Buffer then mounted the wall, and got into the vehicle, in
      which they laid themselves down, so that any person whom they might meet in the streets
      through which they were to pass would only see one individual in the cart—namely, the driver.
      Otherwise, the appearance of three men at that time of night, or rather at that hour in the
      morning, might have excited suspicion.  
  Banks lashed the sides of his horse; and the animal started off at a round pace.  
  Not a word was spoken during the short drive to the surgeon's residence in the Cambridge
      Road.  
   and deserted. A light glimmered through the fan-light over the door; and the
      door itself was opened the moment the cart stopped.  
  The Resurrection Man and the Buffer sprang up; and, seeing that the coast was clear, bundled
      the corpse out of the vehicle in an instant; then in less than half a minute the "blessed
      defunct," as the undertaker called it, was safely lodged in the passage of the surgeon's
      house.  
  Mr. Banks, as soon as the body was removed from his vehicle, drove rapidly away. His portion
      of the night's work was done; and he knew that his accomplices would give him his "reg'lars"
      when they should meet again.  
  The Resurrection Man and the Buffer conveyed the body into a species of out-house, which the
      surgeon, who was passionately attached to anatomical studies, devoted to purposes of
      dissection and physiological experiment.  
  In the middle of this room, which was about ten feet long and six broad, stood a strong deal
      table, forming a slightly inclined plane. The stone pavement of the out-house was perforated
      with holes in the immediate vicinity of the table, so that the fluid which poured from
      subjects for dissection might escape into a drain communicating with the common sewer. To the
      ceiling, immediately above the head of the table, was attached a pulley with a strong cord, by
      means of which a body might be supported in any position that was most convenient to the
      anatomist.  
  The Resurrection Man and his companion carried the corpse into this dissecting-room, and
      placed it upon the table, the surgeon holding a candle to light their movements.  
  "Now, Jack," said Tidkins to the Buffer, "do you take the stiff 'un out of the sack, and lay
      him along decently on the table ready for business, while I retire a moment to this
      gentleman's study and settle accounts with him."  
  "Well and good," returned the Buffer. "I'll stay here till you come back."  
  The surgeon lighted another candle, which he placed on the window-sill, and then withdrew,
      accompanied by the Resurrection Man.  
  The Buffer shut the door of the dissecting-room, because the draught caused the candle to
      flicker, and menaced the light with extinction. He then proceeded to obey the directions which
      he had received from his accomplice.  
  The Buffer removed the sack from the body, which he then stretched out at length upon the
      inclined table, taking care to place its head on the higher extremity and immediately beneath
      the pulley.  
  "There, old feller," he said, "you're comfortable, at any rate. What a blessin' it would be
      to your friends, if they was ever to find out that you'd been had up again, to know into what
      skilful hands you'd happened to fall!"  
  Thus musing, the Buffer turned his back listlessly towards the corpse, and leant against the
      table on which it was lying.  
  "Let me see," he said to himself, "there's thirty-one pounds that was buried along with
         him  , and then there's ten pounds that the sawbones is a paying now to Tony for the
         snatch  ; that makes forty-one pounds, and there's three to go shares. What does that
      make? Threes into four goes once—threes into eleven goes three and two over—that's thirteen
      pounds a-piece, and two pound to split—"  
  The Buffer started abruptly round, and became deadly pale. He thought he heard a slight
      movement of the corpse, and his whole frame trembled.  
  Almost at the same moment some object was hurled violently against the window; the glass was
      shivered to atoms; the candle was thrown down and extinguished; and total darkness reigned in
      the dissecting-room.  
  "Holloa!" cried the Buffer, turning sick at heart; "what's that?"  
  Scarcely had these words escaped his lips when he felt his hand suddenly grasped by the cold
      fingers of the corpse.  
  "O God!" cried the miscreant; and he fell insensible across the body on the table.  
  
  CHAPTER CIX. THE STOCK-BROKER.  
  UPON a glass-door, leading into offices on a ground floor in Tokenhouse Yard, were the words
       "  James Tomlinson  ,   Stock-broker  ."  
  It was about eleven o'clock in the morning.  
  A clerk was busily employed in writing at a desk in the front office. The walls of this room
      were covered with placards, bills, and prospectuses, all announcing the most gigantic
      enterprises, and whose principal features were large figures expressing millions of money.  
  These prospectuses were of various kinds. Some merely put forth schemes by which enormous
      profits were to be realised, but which had not yet arrived to that state of maturity (the
      point at which the popular gullibility has been laid hold of,) when Directors, Secretaries,
      and Treasurers can be announced in a flaming list. Others denoted that the projectors had
      triumphed over the little difficulty of obtaining good names to form a board; and the upper
      part of this class of prospectuses was embellished with a perfect array of M.P.'s, Aldermen,
      and Esquires.  
  The prospectuses, one and all, set forth, with George-Robins-flourishes and
      poetico-hyperbolical flowers of rhetoric, the unparalleled and astounding advantages to be
      reaped from the enterprises respectfully submitted to public consideration and to the monied
      world especially. The face of the globe was a complete paradise according to those
      announcements. The interior of Africa was represented to be a perfect mine of gold by the
      projectors of a company to trade to those salubrious parts; the cannibals of the South Sea
      Islands became intelligent and interesting beings in the language of another association of
      speculators; the majestic scenery of the North Pole and the phenomena of the aurora borealis
      were held out by a colonising company as inducements to families to emigrate to Spitzbergen;
      the originators of a scheme for forming railways in Egypt expatiated upon the delights of
      travelling at the rate of sixty miles an hour through a land famous for its antiquarian
      remains, and along the banks of a river where the young alligators might be seen disporting in
      the sun; and numerous other prospectuses of majestic enterprises developed their original
      principles and prospective benefits to the astounded reader.  
  One would have imagined that any individual with a five-pound note in his pocket, had only
      just to step into Mr. Tomlinson's office, take five shares in as many enterprises, pay one
      pound deposit upon each, and walk out again a man of vast wealth.  
   furnished room, which constituted the "private office." He was looking well, but
      somewhat careworn, and not quite so comfortable as a man who had passed through the Bankruptcy
      Court, got his certificate, and was in business once more, might be expected to look. In a
      word, he had a hard struggle to make his way respectably, and was compelled to meddle in many
      things that shocked his somewhat sensitive disposition.  
  A short, well-dressed, good-humoured man, with a small quick eye, was sitting on one side of
      the fire, conversing with the stock-broker.  
  "Well, Mr. Tomlinson," he said, "on those conditions I will lend my name to the Irish
      Railway Company proposed. But, remember, I require fifty shares, and I am not to pay a
      farthing for them."  
  "Oh, of course," cried Tomlinson; "that is precisely the proposal I was instructed to make
      to you. The fact is, between you and me, the projectors are all men of straw—one came out of
      Whitecross Street Prison a few weeks ago, and another has been a bankrupt twice and an
      insolvent seven times; and so they must raise heaven and earth to get good names."  
  "'Tis their only plan—their only plan," answered the gentleman; "and I flatter myself," he
      added, drawing himself up, "that the countenance of Mr. Sheriff Popkins is not to be sneezed
      at."  
  "On the contrary, my dear Mr. Popkins," said Tomlinson, "your name will soon bring a host of
      others."  
  "I should think so, Mr. Tomlinson—I should think so," was the self-sufficient reply.  
  "Well, then, Mr. Popkins, shall I make an appointment for you to meet Messrs. Bubble and
      Chouse to-morrow morning at my office?"  
  "If you please, my dear sir. And now I wish you to do a little matter for me. The fact is, I
      have been fool enough to take thirty shares in a certain railway company, and I have been
      elected a director. The company is in a most flourishing condition, and so I mean to make them
      purchase my shares of me. You will accordingly have the kindness to let it be known on 'Change
      that you have my shares to sell; but you must mind and not part with them. The thing will get
      to the company's ears, and they will be terribly alarmed at the prospect of the injury which
      may be done to the enterprise by a director offering his shares for sale. They will then send
      and negotiate with you privately, and you can make a good bargain with them."  
  "I understand," said Tomlinson. "I shall only breathe a whisper about the shares being
      offered for sale, in a quarter whence I know the rumour will immediately fly to the Directors
      of the Company."  
  "Good," observed Mr. Sheriff Popkins. "Here is the scrip: you can tell me what you have done
      when I call to-morrow morning to meet Messrs. Bubble and Chouse."  
  The worthy sheriff then withdrew, and Mr. Alderman Sniff was announced.  
  "Mr. Tomlinson," said this gentleman, "I wish you to do your best for a new Joint
      Stock-Company which I have just founded. This is the prospectus."  
  The stock-broker glanced over it, and said, in a musing manner, "Ah! very good
      indeed—excellent! '  British Marble Company.  ' Famous idea! '  Capital Two Hundred
       Thousand Pounds in Ten Thousand Shares of Twenty Pounds Each.  ' Good again. '  Deposit
       One Pound per Share.  ' That will do. Then comes the Board of Directors—all good names. I
      see you have made yourself Managing Director: well, that's quite fair! Then, again,
       '  Auditor, Mr. Alderman Sniff  ;   Treasurer, Mr. Alderman Sniff  ;   Secretary,
       Mr. Alderman Sniff.  ' But who sells the quarry to the Company? Oh! I see, '  Mr.
       Alderman Sniff  .'"  
  "Well, what do you think of it?" demanded the alderman.  
  "You ask me candidly, my dear sir?"  
  "Certainly," replied the alderman.  
  "I think the plan is excellent. The only drawback to its success, is—shall I speak
      openly?"  
  "I wish you to do so."  
  "Then I am of opinion that you have given yourself too many situations," continued
      Tomlinson. "In the first place you found the Company, and you make yourself Managing Director.
      Well and good. But then you also sell the quarry   to   the Company. Now, as Managing
      Director, you have to award   to   yourself a sum for that quarry; as Treasurer you pay
      yourself; as Secretary you draw up the agreements; and as Auditor you confirm your own
      accounts!"  
  "Perfectly correct, Mr. Tomlinson. Is it not a rule that Joint-Stock Companies are never to
      benefit any one save the founder?"  
  "Oh! no one denies   that  ," answered the stock-broker. "What I am afraid of is, that
      the public will not   bite  , when they see one man occupying so many situations in the
      Company."  
  "Nonsense, my dear fellow! The name of an alderman will carry every thing before it. Does
      not the world believe that the Aldermen of the City of London are all as rich as Crœsus?"  
  "Whereas, between you and me," returned Tomlinson with a sly laugh, "there is scarcely one
      of them who has got a penny if his affairs came to be wound up."  
  "And yet we live gloriously, ha! ha!" chuckled Mr. Alderman Sniff. "But to return to my
      business: what can you do for me?"  
  "I can certainly recommend the enterprise," answered Tomlinson. "But where can the marble be
      seen?"  
  "At my office," said the alderman. "I went and bought the finest piece that was ever
      imported from Italy; and there it is in my counting-house, labelled '  British Marble  '
      in letters at least half a foot high."  
  "Where is the quarry situated?" inquired Tomlinson.  
  "Oh! I haven't quite made up my mind about   that   yet," was the answer given by Mr.
      Alderman Sniff. "The truth is, I am going down into Wales this week, and I shall buy the first
      field I can get cheap in some rude part of the country. That is the least difficulty in the
      whole enterprise."  
  "Your plans are admirable, my dear sir," exclaimed Tomlinson. "I will do all I can for you.
      Will you take a glass of wine and a biscuit?"  
  "No, I thank you—not now," said the Alderman. "I have promised a colleague to sit for him
      to-day at Guildhall police-court. Last week I was on the rota for attendance there, and I
      remanded a man who was brought up on a charge of obtaining three and sixpence under false
      pretences."  
  "Indeed?" ejaculated Tomlinson, whose eyes were fixed upon the "  Two Hundred Thousand
       Pounds  " in the alderman's prospectus.  
   "you don't let out that it came from Italy. It is pure Welsh marble,
      remember!"  
  Alderman Sniff chuckled at this pleasant idea, and then hastened to Guildhall, where he
      fully justified his character of being the most severe magistrate in the City of London.  
  A few minutes after Mr. Alderman Sniff had taken his departure, Mr. Greenwood was
      announced.  
  "My dear Tomlinson, I am delighted to see you," said the capitalist. "It is really an age—a
      week at least—since I saw you. How do matters get on?"  
  "I have prospects of doing an excellent business," answered Tomlinson. "The numberless
      bubble companies that are started every day, are the making of us stock-brokers. We dispose of
      shares or effect transfers, and obtain our commission, let the result be what it may to the
      purchasers."  
  "And I hope that you have conquered those ridiculous qualms of conscience which always made
      a coward of you, when you were in Lombard Street?" said Greenwood.  
  "  Needs must when the devil drives  ," observed Tomlinson drily.  
  "For my part," continued Greenwood, "I take advantage of this mania on the part of the
      English for speculation in joint-stock companies and railway shares. A day of reaction will
      come; and the effects will be fearful. Thousands and thousands of families will be involved in
      irretrievable ruin. That day may not occur for one year—two years—five years—or even ten
      years;—but come it will; and the signal for it will be when the House of Commons is inundated
      with railway and joint-stock company business, and when it is compelled to postpone a portion
      of that business until the ensuing session. Then confidence will receive a shock: an interval
      for calm meditation will occur; and the result will be awful. Every one will be anxious to
      sell shares, and there will be no buyers. Now mark my words, Tomlinson; and, if you speculate
      on your own account, speculate accordingly.   I   do so."  
  "And you are not likely to go wrong, I know," said Tomlinson. "But stock-brokers do not risk
      any money of their own: they have plenty of clients, who will do that for them."  
  "Then you are really thriving?" asked Greenwood.  
  "I am earning a living, and my business is increasing. But I feel hanging like a mill-stone
      round my neck the thousand pounds which you lent me at twenty per cent.—"  
  "Yes—  only   twenty per cent."  
  "  Only   at twenty per cent.," continued Tomlinson with a sigh: "and I am unable to
      return you more than one hundred at present, although I agreed to pay you two hundred every
      four months."  
  "The hundred will do," said Greenwood; and he wrote out a receipt for that amount.  
  Tomlinson handed him over a number of notes, which Greenwood counted and then consigned to
      his pocket.  
  "There is a pretty business to be done in the City now," said the capitalist, after a pause.
      "I contrive to snatch an hour or two now and then from the time which I am compelled to devote
      to the enlightened and independent body that returned me to Parliament; and I seldom come into
      the City on those occasions without lending a few hundreds to some poor devil who has
      over-bought himself in shares."  
  "I have no doubt that you thrive, Greenwood," said the stock-broker. "Every man who takes
      advantage of the miseries of others must get on."  
  "To be sure—to be sure," cried the Member of Parliament. "I hope that you will act upon that
      principle."  
  "I have no reason to complain of the business that I am now doing: I act as honestly as I
      can—and that principle deprives me of many advantageous affairs. Then I experience annoyance
      from a constant reminiscence of that poor old man who so nobly sacrificed himself for me."  
  "The eternal cry!" ejaculated Greenwood. "If you are so very anxious to find him out, put an
      advertisement in the   Times  —"  
  "And if he saw it, he would believe it to be a stratagem of the police to arrest him. You
      know that there is a warrant out against him. The official assignee took that step."  
  "Well, let him take his chance; and if he should happen to be captured, we will petition the
      Home Secretary to diminish the period for which he will be sentenced to transportation. Not
      that such a step would benefit him much, because his age—"  
  "Let us drop this subject, Greenwood," said Tomlinson, evidently affected.  
  "With all my heart. I must admit that it moves one's feelings; and if I met the old man in
      the street, I should not hesitate to give him a guinea out of my own pocket."  
  "A guinea!" cried Tomlinson—and a smile of contempt curled his lips. "Perhaps you would
      recommend me to bestow a five-pound note upon that poor Italian nobleman whom you cheated out
      of his fifteen thousand pounds."  
  "You need not call him a poor nobleman," answered Greenwood. "He is now worth ten thousand
      pounds a-year."  
  "Indeed! A great change must have taken place, then, in his fortunes?" exclaimed
      Tomlinson.  
  "The fact, in a few words, is this. A young lady, whom I knew well," said Greenwood,
      "obtained letters of introduction from Count Alteroni to certain friends of his in Montoni,
      the capital of Castelcicala, to which state she repaired for the benefit of her health, or
      some such frivolous reason. She had the good fortune to captivate the Grand Duke—"  
  "Miss Eliza Sydney, you mean?" said Tomlinson.  
  "The same. Did you know her?"  
  "Not at all. But I read in the newspapers the account of her marriage with Angelo III.
      Proceed."  
  "The moment she married the Grand Duke, a pension of ten thousand a-year was granted to
      Count Alteroni, by way of indemnification, I have heard, for his estates, which were
      confiscated after he had fled the country in consequence of political intrigues."  
  "How did you learn all this?"  
  "My valet Filippo happens to be a native of Montoni, and he seems well acquainted with all
      that passes in Castelcicala. Count Alteroni and his family have returned to the villa which
      they formerly inhabited at Richmond."  
  "I am delighted to hear this good news. You have taken a considerable weight off my mind;
      the transaction with that nobleman was always a subject of self-reproach."  
   as I am compelled to return to Spring Gardens, to meet a deputation from the
      Rottenborough Agricultural Society, at one o'clock precisely—and I never keep such people
      waiting more than an hour!"  
  "That is considerate on your part," said the stock-broker.  
  "Don't you think it is? But I did not come here for the sole purpose of chatting. The fact
      is, a gentleman with whom I am acquainted wants a stock-broker for a very delicate and
      important business—for a business," added Greenwood, sinking his voice to a whisper, "which
      requires a man who will be content to put five hundred pounds into his pocket for the service
      that will be required of him, and perform that service blindfold, as it were."  
  "I will do nothing to compromise my safety," said Tomlinson.  
  "You will not be required to do so," answered Greenwood. "However, the gentleman I allude to
      will call upon you in the course of the day, I dare say; and he will then explain to you the
      service he has to demand at your hands."  
  "What is the name of your friend?" inquired Tomlinson.  
  "Mr. Chichester—Arthur Chichester," was the reply.  
  "Chichester—Chichester," said the stock-broker, musing; "surely I have heard you mention
      that name before? Ah! now I remember! Did you not complain to me a few days ago that he had
      been making mischief between you and a certain Sir Rupert Harborough?"  
  "I did," answered Greenwood; "and I certainly had good cause for anger against this same
      Arthur Chichester. But I had become his confidant and adviser in a certain affair a few weeks
      before I discovered that he had acquainted Sir Rupert Harborough with circumstances which he
      had better have kept to himself; and I am therefore compelled to continue my assistance and
      counsel to him until the affair alluded to be brought to a successful termination. Besides, as
      Sir Rupert and I have settled our little differences, there is no use in bearing malice,
      especially when something is to be gained by forbearance."  
  "I thought you would make that admission," said Tomlinson, laughing. "Well, I shall see your
      friend, and if, with safety, I can earn five hundred pounds, certainly, in my position, I
      cannot afford to lose such an opportunity."  
  "That is speaking like a reasonable man," observed Greenwood. "Never stick at trifles. What
      should I be now, if I had hesitated at every step I took? Should I possess a hundred thousand
      pounds in good securities? should I be enabled to gratify every wish, caprice, or desire,
      whose object money can accomplish? should I be the representative of one of the most
      independent and intelligent constituencies in England? Ah, my dear fellow, think of me and my
      position when you hesitate; and always make money after the well-authorised
       system—  honestly  , if you can;   but, at all events, make money  ."  
  With these words, Mr. Greenwood took his departure.  
  "Yes," mused Tomlinson, when he was alone once more, "that man is right! Make money,
      honestly, if you can; but, at all events,   make money  . That is the burden of
         his   song; why should it not be the   chorus   of mine? When I look around me, I
      see every one making money upon the same plan. Sheriff Popkins does not hesitate to lend his
      name to a bubble; and Alderman Spiff concocts one! And they are men of reputation—holding
      important offices—appearing at Court—wielding power—exercising influence. This is indeed a
      wide field for contemplation. Why, Greenwood, in his bold, dashing manner, gains more in a day
      than I, in my miserable, droning fashion, earn in a month. To be afraid to touch the gold that
      is thrown in one's way in this wonderful city, is to be a coward—a very coward. Yes—I see it
      all! Greenwood is right. Make money—honestly, if you can; but, at all events, make money!"  
  Mr. Tomlinson's soliloquy had arrived at this very pleasing conclusion, just as the door of
      his office opened, and a clerk entered to acquaint his master that a gentleman of the name of
      Chichester desired to speak to him.  
  "Show Mr. Chichester in," said Tomlinson.  
  Mr. Chichester was dressed in his usually fashionable manner; and his gait had lost nothing
      of the care-nothing-for-anybody kind of swagger which characterised him when he was first
      introduced to the reader.  
  Having thrown himself listlessly upon a chair, he said, "I presume our mutual friend
      Greenwood has mentioned my name to you, Mr. Tomlinson?"  
  "He has. I was prepared for your visit."  
  "But not for its object, perhaps?" said Chichester.  
  "I am as yet ignorant on that head," was the reply.  
  "Mr. Greenwood then told you nothing—"  
  "Nothing, save an intimation that my services were required in a certain delicate and
      important matter, and that five hundred pounds would be my remuneration."  
  "Perfectly correct," answered Mr. Chichester. "Are you disposed to aid me on the proposed
      terms?"  
  "I must first learn the nature of the business in which my interference is needed."  
  "And if you should then decline?"  
  "You shall have my solemn assurance that what you confide to me remains buried in my own
      bosom."  
   myself out a pauper. Besides, she knew that father was tolerably well off. I
      assured her that I was possessed of a few thousands, and that the old gentleman allowed me
      three hundred a-year into the bargain. She stipulated that all her own money should be settled
      upon herself. I demurred to this proposal; but she was obstinate; and I then discovered that
      Mrs. Viola Higgins had a very determined will and a very positive temper of her own. I thought
      to myself, '  Here is a charming widow who throws herself into my arms, and who possesses a
       decent fortune; it would be madness to neglect so golden an opportunity of enriching myself.
       Besides,  ' I reasoned, '  when once we are married, it will be very easy for me to
       wheedle the affectionate creature out of any money that I may require  .' Well, I
      consented to the settlement of all her property upon herself; and in due course we were
      married. I did not mention the matter to any of my West-End friends, because I did not like to
      invite them to the wedding—I was afraid their off-hand manners would alarm the bride, and give
      her an unfavourable opinion with regard to myself. So the business was kept very snug and
      quiet; and we passed the honey-moon at my wife's sister and brother-in-law's, very decent
      people in their way, and dwelling at Stratford-le-Bow. On our return to London, I thought it
      time to break the ice in respect to my own pecuniary situation. The truth was, that I had not
      a penny-piece of my own, and that my father had long since withdrawn his support, in
      consequence of the immense drains I had made upon his purse. I was moreover encumbered with
      debts; and some of my tradesmen had found me out and began to call at the house at Cambridge
      Heath. They even used menaces. My position was truly critical. I did not marry the widow
      merely with a view to take her out for a walk, sit by the fire-side chatting, or read a book
      while she worked. I wanted money,—money to pay my debts,—money to enjoy myself with.
      Accordingly I broke the ice by very candidly avowing that I had not a shilling. I, however,
      swore that her beauty and accomplishments had alone induced me thus to deceive her. But—oh!
      the vixen! She flew into such a passion that I thought she would tear my eyes out. She raved
      and wept—and wept and raved—and then reproached and taunted,—until I wished one of us at the
      devil, and scarcely cared which went there. The scene ended in Viola's falling into a fit of
      hysterics; and she was compelled to go to bed. I was most assiduous to her; and my attentions
      evidently softened her. In a few hours she grew calm, and then said, '  Arthur, you have
       deceived me grossly; but I can forgive you. I do not regret the loss of the wealth and income
       which you led me to believe were yours; I am only sorry that you should have thought it
       necessary to practise such a measure to induce me to marry you. But let what is past be
       forgotten. The income derived from my property is sufficient for us; and, if you will be kind
       and good to me, this deception shall never more trouble our happiness.  '"  
  "I think Mrs. Chichester spoke like a generous, sensible, and noble-hearted woman," observed
      Tomlinson, who was, nevertheless, at a loss to conceive how all these details could be
      connected with the service which Mr. Chichester required at his hands.  
  "Ahem!" exclaimed that gentleman, who did not seem to relish the remark particularly well.
      "However, all that fine feeling was mere outward show with my wife," he continued; "for she
      was inexorable in her refusal to sell out or mortgage any of her funded property for my use. I
      told her that I had debts. '  Give a list to my solicitor,  ' she said, '  and he shall
       compromise with your creditors  .' I assured her that I could make a better bargain with
      them myself. She would not believe me. I then declared point-blank that I did not mean to
      remain tied to her apron-strings; that she must at least settle half the property upon me;
      that I desired to keep a horse and cab, and introduce my friends to my wife; and that I was
      resolved we should live as people of property ought to live. It was then that she showed her
      inveterate obstinacy, and manifested the worst shades of an infamous temper. She agreed to
      allow me one hundred a-year for my clothes and pocket-money, but would not give me any control
      over her property. As for horses, cabs, and West End friends, she ridiculed the idea. I
      prayed, threatened, and reasoned by turns: she was as immoveable as Mount Atlas. Several days
      were passed in perpetual arguments upon the subject; but the more I prayed, threatened, and
      reasoned, the more obstinate she grew. One morning we had a desperate quarrel. I swore that I
      would be revenged—that I would extort from her by violence, or other means, what she refused
      to yield to argument. Nothing, however, could move her: she said that she would not ruin
      herself to gratify my extravagances. This was nearly a month ago. I bounced out of the house,
      and hurried up to the West End of the town, as fast as I could go, to see and consult my
      friend Sir Rupert Harborough. But, as I was on my way thither—for I actually had not even
      money in my pocket to pay a cab—I accidentally met Greenwood. He saw that I was annoyed and
      vexed, and inquired the reason. I told him all. He reflected for some moments, and then said,
       '  Do not consult Harborough in this matter. He cannot assist you. There is only one course
       to adopt with such a woman as this. You must put her under restraint.  ' I told him that
      nothing would please me better; but that I should have all her friends upon me if I threw her
      into a lunatic asylum; and that I was, moreover, without the means to take a single step.
      Greenwood and I went into a tavern, and discussed the business over a bottle of wine. He then
      laid down a certain plan, made certain stipulations respecting remuneration for himself, and
      offered to back me in carrying the matter to the extreme. Of course I assented to all he
      proposed. The whole affair was managed in such a manner as—"  
  "As none but Greenwood   could   manage it," observed Tomlinson.  
  "Exactly," returned Chichester. "Indeed, he   is   a thorough man of business! He
      procured two surgeons to call, at separate times, at the house at Cambridge Heath, ostensibly
      to see me. I took care to be at home. They also saw my wife; and the result was that they
      granted the certificates I required."  
  "Certificates of an unsound state of mind?" inquired Tomlinson.  
   hinted to her the propriety of acceding to my wishes in respect to the disposal
      of her property, she cut me short by the assurance that her decision was irrevocable. I really
      wished to avoid extreme measures; but with such a disobedient, self-willed, obstinate woman,
      leniency was an impossibility. Accordingly, I one evening allured her, during a walk, into the
      immediate vicinity of the lunatic asylum: the streets were lonely and deserted; and it was
      already dark. The keeper of the mad-house had been prepared for the execution of the project
      that evening; and he was at his post. As we slowly passed by his house, he sprang forward from
      some recess or dark nook, and fixed a plaster over my wife's mouth. Thus not a cry could
      escape her lips. At the same moment we seized her, and conveyed her into the asylum."  
  "That was three weeks ago?" inquired Tomlinson.  
  Chichester nodded an assent.  
  "And she has not come to her senses yet?"  
  "She has at length," was the answer. "I received a letter yesterday from the keeper of the
      asylum, stating that her spirit is broken, and that she is now ready to obey her husband in
      all things. The keeper wrote to me a few days ago to state that his   mode of cure   was
      producing a favourable result; and yesterday he intimated to me by another letter that the
         mode   alluded to had proved completely successful."  
  "What course do you now intend to pursue?" demanded Tomlinson, who began to suspect the
      manner in which his services were to be made available.  
  "I immediately communicated the important contents of this second letter to Greenwood,"
      continued Chichester, "and he recommended me to apply to you to aid me in completing the
      business. My wife now sees her folly, and is willing to devote one half of her
      property—namely, eight thousand pounds, to the use and purposes of her lawful husband; and I
      am generous enough to be satisfied with that sum, instead of insisting upon having the
      whole."  
  "I understand you," said Tomlinson: "you require a stock-broker to effect the transfer of
      eight thousand pounds from the name of your wife into your own name."  
  "And to sell out the amount when so transferred," added Chichester.  
  "It will be necessary for me to obtain the signature of your wife to a certain paper,"
      observed Tomlinson.  
  "Greenwood has told me all this. In one word, will you accompany me to the asylum where my
      wife is confined, and obtain her signature?"  
  "If she be willing to give it, I am willing to receive it—  as a matter of business  ,"
      answered Tomlinson. "But, are you sure—in a word, what guarantee have you that she will not
      denounce the whole proceeding to the officers of justice—rally her friends around her—appeal
      to the law—and punish every one concerned in the business?"  
  "Listen. The document which she agrees to sign is a general power on my behalf over eight
      thousand pounds in the Bank of England: this power will be dated two months back—a month after
      our marriage. We must be supposed to have called at your office on a particular day at that
      period, on which occasion she signed the power in your presence. It being a general power of
      transfer, it would not seem extraordinary that I did not use it until now—that is, two months
      after it was given. This night must she sign the deed: to-morrow you must transfer and sell
      out the money. Then to-morrow night, she shall be conveyed back to the house at Cambridge
      Heath. The two servants whom we keep are bribed to my interest: they are ready, in case of
      need, to prove the existence of those symptoms of insanity which justified the certificates of
      the surgeons and the restraint under which my wife has been placed. How, then, can she do us
      an injury? If she proclaim her '  wrongs  '—as she may call them,   you   can prove
      that the power of transfer could not have been extorted from her in a mad-house, as it was
      signed two months ago at your office! Then, if she were to speak of the   mode of
       treatment   adopted by the keeper of that mad-house to curb her haughty spirit, the
      accusation would be indignantly denied; and her statements would be set down to a disordered
      imagination,   and would justify further restraint  . Be you well assured, that she will
      never say or do any thing that may endanger her liberty again! No—the fact is simply this: we
      divide the property, and separate for ever. She will be glad to get rid of a husband like me:
      I shall not be sorry to dissolve—as far as we can dissolve it—a connexion with a woman of her
      mean, griping, and avaricious disposition."  
  "This is Greenwood's scheme throughout," said Tomlinson. "No other man living could plot
      such admirable combinations to effect a certain object, without danger to any one."  
  "Do you consent to act in this matter, on consideration of retaining for yourself five
      hundred pounds of the money which you will have to transfer and sell out to-morrow?"  
  "I do consent," replied Tomlinson, after a few moments' reflection, during which he muttered
      to himself, "  Make money—honestly, if you can; but, at all events, make money  ."  
  "To-night—at ten o'clock, will you come to me at my house at Cambridge Heath?" inquired
      Chichester.  
  "I will," was the answer. "But let me ask you one question:—what excuse have you made to
      your wife's friends for this absence of three weeks?"  
  "In the first place," said Chichester, "her only relations consist of a sister and this
      sister's husband at Stratford-le-Bow; and they are so immersed in the cares of business, that
      they have not called once at Cambridge Heath ever since our marriage. Secondly, my wife always
      lived in a very retired manner, and has very few acquaintances or friends besides my father's
      family. It was therefore easy to satisfy the one or two persons who   did   call, with
      the excuse that Mrs. Chichester had gone on a short visit to some relatives in the
      country."  
  "And you feel convinced your precautions are so wisely taken, that she will never open her
      lips relative to the past?" said Tomlinson.  
  "  I am confident that she will not breathe a word that may lead to her return to the
       place where she now is  ," answered Chichester, with a significant look and emphatic
      solemnity of tone.  
  "Then I will not hesitate to serve you in this business," said Tomlinson. "To-night—at ten
      o'clock."  
  "To-night—at ten o'clock," repeated Chichester; and with these words he departed.  
  When he was gone, Tomlinson paced his office in an agitated manner.  
   to bear a part, only serve to prepare the way for more daring and more criminal
      pursuits. Five hundred pounds at one stroke! That is a little fortune to a man, struggling
      against the world, like me! Four hundred will I pay to Greenwood—the other hundred will swell
      my little account at the bankers'; for who can hope to do any extent of business in this city
      without a good name at his bankers'?"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Tomlinson ceased, and sate down calm and collected. Alas! how easy is it to reason oneself
      into a belief of the existence of a necessity for pursuits of dishonesty or crime!  
  The clerk entered the private office, and said, "Sir, there is a person, who refuses to give
      his name, waiting to speak to you."  
  "Let him come in," replied Tomlinson.  
  The clerk ushered in a man of cadaverous countenance, bushy brows, and large whiskers, and
      who was dressed in a suit of black.  
  "Your business, sir?" said the stock-broker, who did not much like the appearance of his
      visitor.  
  "Your name's Tomlinson?" remarked the man, coolly taking a chair.  
  "Yes. What would you with me?"  
  "James Tomlinson," continued the man, referring to a scrap of paper, which he took from his
      waistcoat pocket, "late banker in Lombard Street?"  
  "The same," said Tomlinson, impatiently.  
  "Then I took it down right, although he did speak in such a confused manner," observed the
      man, muttering rather to himself than to Mr. Tomlinson.  
  "What do you mean?" demanded the stock-broker.  
  "I mean that there's a person who wants to see you," answered the stranger. "I don't know
      that I'm exactly right in saying   wants  , because he is in such a state that he can
      neither want nor care about any thing. At the same time, I think it would be as well if
         you   was to see   him  ."  
  "Who is this person?" cried Tomlinson.  
  "A man that seems to know you well enough, if I can understand his ravings."  
  "Ravings!" repeated the stock-broker, already influenced by a slight misgiving.  
   ten or a dozen hours:—if that wouldn't make a man rave—what the devil
      would?"  
  "Have the goodness to explain yourself. Every word you utter is an enigma to me."  
  "But it wasn't an enigma to my poor friend when the stiff 'un suddenly put a cold hand upon
      his. However, in two words, do you know a person called Michael Martin?"  
  "Michael Martin!" cried the stock-broker. "Speak—what has become of him?"  
  "He has been ill—"  
  "Ill! poor old man! and I not to know it!"  
  "Worse than that! He died—"  
  "Died! Where—when?"  
  "Died—and was buried."  
  "Trifle not with me. When did he die? where is he buried?"  
  "He died—was buried—and came to life again!" said the stranger, with the most provoking
      coolness.  
  "Sir," exclaimed Tomlinson, advancing towards his visitor, and speaking in a firm and
      emphatic manner, "if you have called to tell me any thing concerning Michael Martin, speak
      without mystification."  
  "Well, sir," returned the stranger, "the plain truth is this:—An old man, without a name,
      took up his abode in a by-street in Globe Town some months ago. He was taken ill, and, to all
      appearance, died. He was buried. A surgeon fancied him as a subject, and hired me and a friend
      of mine to have him up again. We resurrectionized him, and took him in a cart last night to
      the surgeon's house. He was conveyed into the dissecting-room, and stretched on the table. The
      doctor and I went into the surgery to settle the expenses; and, in the mean time, my friend
      was left alone with the stiff 'un. It seems that a neighbour, suspecting that the surgeon now
      and then got a subject for his experiments, saw the cart stop at the door, and immediately
      understood what was going on. He went into his garden, which joins the yard where the
      dissecting-house stands, and seeing a light in the window of the dissecting-house, he felt
      sure that his suspicions were well founded, although he could not see into the place, because
      there was a dark blind drawn down over the window. However, the neighbour was resolved to
      clear up his doubts; so he took up a brick-bat, and threw it as hard as he could against the
      window. The glass was broken, and the light extinguished. My friend, who was left alone with
      the stiff 'un, was somewhat startled at this occurrence; but how much more was he alarmed when
      he suddenly felt the body stretch out its hand and catch hold of one of his?"  
  "Then Michael Martin was not dead?" ejaculated Tomlinson, in a tone which expressed alike
      the tenderness of deep emotion and also the bitterness of disappointment; for, perhaps, all
      circumstances considered, the ex-banker would rather have heard a confirmation of the death,
      than an account of the resuscitation of his late clerk.  
  "No—the old man is not dead. The doctor and myself were in the surgery, when we heard the
      smash of the window and the cry of the Buf—of my friend, I mean."  
  "Of your brother resurrectionist, I suppose," continued Tomlinson, in a tone of ineffable
      disgust. "Well, go on."  
  "We went into the dissecting-room with a lamp, and there we found the light put out, and my
      comrade insensible on the floor. But what was more extraordinary still, we saw the corpse
      gasping for breath. '  He is not dead!  ' cried the surgeon; and in a moment a lancet was
      stuck into his arm. The blood would not flow at first, but the surgeon chafed his temples and
      hands by turns; and in a few moments the blood trickled out pretty freely. Meantime I had
      recovered my companion, and explained to him the nature of the phenomenon that had taken
      place. When he heard the real truth, he was no longer alarmed, because he knew very well that
      people are often buried in a trance. In fact, one night, about eighteen months ago, he and I
      went to Old Saint Pancras church-yard to get up a stiff 'un, and when we opened the coffin, we
      found that the body had turned completely round on its face; it was, however, stone dead when
      we got it up—and never shall I forget what a countenance it had! But of that no matter."  
  "Have the goodness to keep to your present narrative," said Tomlinson, scarcely able to
      conceal his disgust at the presence of a resurrectionist—an avowed body-snatcher.  
  "Well," continued the man with the cadaverous countenance, "in a very few minutes we
      completely recovered the old gentleman. I obeyed all the directions of the surgeon, and ran
      backwards and forwards to the pharmacy for God only knows what salts and what ammonia. At last
      the subject gave a terrible groan, opened his eyes, and exclaimed, '  Where am I?  ' The
      surgeon assured him that he was in safety—that he had been very ill—that he was now much
      better—and so on. Meantime, by the surgeon's orders, I had called up his housekeeper, (for he
      is a bachelor,) and she had got a bed prepared and warmed, and some hot water ready, and every
      thing comfortable. Well, we carried the old gentleman up to bed; the doctor gave him a little
      warm brandy and water; and in another half hour, he was able to speak a few words in a
      comprehensible manner. But his brain seemed confused, and all we could learn was that his name
      was '  Michael Martin  ,' and that he raved after a gentleman, whom he called '  James
       Tomlinson, the banker  .'"  
  "Ah! he said that—did he?" cried Tomlinson, rising, and pacing the room with agitated
      steps.  
  "He did," was the reply. "And then we began to think that we had heard those names before;
      and, in a few minutes, I—who know every thing," added the man, fixing his serpent-like eyes
      upon he stock-broker with a kind of fiendish leer,—"I," he continued, "remembered that Michael
      Martin was the man who had been the cashier in the bank of Tomlinson and Company, Lombard
      Street."  
  "But did he say—did he—" began the stock-broker, gasping for breath,—"did he—"  
  "He raved—he grew delirious; and in his wanderings, he said enough to prove that   he  
      was not guilty of the breach of trust imputed to him."  
  "O God! thy vengeance overtakes me, then, at last!" cried Tomlinson, sinking, pale and
      trembling, upon a chair.  
  "He said much—very much," continued the man whose revelations had thus produced so strange
      an effect upon James Tomlinson. "But do not alarm yourself—I am not one to peach; and the
      doctor himself is not likely to say any thing that night lead to an awkward inquiry into the
      circumstances that brought the old gentleman into his house. Remember, the law now punishes
      with transportation those who resurrectionize, and those who encourage resurrectionists."  
    
  "Betray you!" echoed the man, with a contemptuous curl of his lip and a ferocious leer of
      his eyes, which gleamed from beneath their bushy brows like those of a hyena from the shade of
      an overhanging brake: "betray you! What good should I get by that? You know that a reward of
      three thousand pounds was offered to any one who would deliver up this Michael Martin; and as
      a man of sense, you must also understand that it would not be very convenient for me to go
      forward and claim this reward. At the same time, I might talk—or my friend might talk; no one
      could prevent that; and such-like idle gossiping would lead to the detection of the old man.
      Now you are the best judge whether or not it is worth while to put a seal upon our lips. We
      don't want to be hard upon you;—but, perhaps," added the man, interrupting himself, "you had
      better see the old gentleman first, and then you will know that I am telling you the
      truth."  
  "When can I see him? where is he?" demanded Tomlinson, almost bewildered by the sudden
      revelation which had been made to him concerning Michael Martin.  
  "You had better put off your visit till dusk," was the reply; "because I should like to go
      with you, and the surgeon would not be very well pleased if I called upon him in the
      day-time."  
  "Let it be at dusk, then," said Tomlinson.  
  "Name your hour."  
  "I have an engagement between nine and ten o'clock to-night," returned the stock-broker.  
  "And so have I," said the visitor. "What should you say to seven o'clock? It is as dark then
      as it is at ten or eleven."  
  "Seven will suit me well," answered Tomlinson. "Where shall I meet you?"  
  "At Bethnal Green New Church—the church that stands in the Cambridge Road, and faces the
      Bethnal Green Road," explained the body-snatcher. "You can be walking up and down there a few
      minutes before seven—I shall not keep you waiting."  
  "I will be punctual," said Tomlinson. "But—once more—you will not betray me?"  
  "Ridiculous!" was the contemptuous reply.  
  "And this surgeon—will he not be tempted by the reward to—"  
  "Do you think he would walk straight into Newgate and say, '  I am come to be transported
       for encouraging and employing resurrection men  ?' You need not alarm yourself. Me and my
      comrade will settle the matter amicably with you."  
  The body-snatcher then took his departure.  
  Tomlinson threw himself back in his chair, pressed both his hands against his heated
      forehead, and exclaimed in a tone of despair, "I have fervently prayed that I might meet my
      poor old clerk again; and heaven has granted my request—but merely to punish me for my
      crimes!"  
  
  CHAPTER CX. THE EFFECTS Of A TRANCE.  
  IT was half-past eight o'clock in the evening.  
  By the side of a bed in a comfortable chamber at the surgeon's house in the Cambridge Road,
      near Bethnal Green New Church, sate James Tomlinson.  
  The light of the candles that burnt upon the table, fell on the pale and ghastly countenance
      of old Michael Martin, who lay in that bed, his head propped up with pillows.  
  There was no one else in the room at the time, save these two persons.  
  "And thus was it, my good and faithful friend," said Tomlinson, breaking the long silence
      which had ensued after mutual explanations,—"thus was it that you so nobly sacrificed yourself
      for me! Oh! believe me that I have never ceased to think of your generous—your unparalleled
      behaviour in that sad business!"  
  "I know it—I know it," returned the old man in a weak and hollow voice. "If you had not been
      a kind master to me, I should never have done all that for you. But, tell me,—and tell me
      truly," added Michael, fixing his glassy eyes upon the stock-broker, "do you think that these
      persons—the surgeon, and that hideous man who—"  
  Martin ceased—and his entire frame was convulsed with horror as he remembered the appalling
      circumstances under which he had been recovered from his late death-like trance and restored
      to life.  
  "Compose yourself, my excellent friend," said Tomlinson, who fully comprehended what was
      passing in his mind; "fear alone will seal these people's lips—even if no other motive were
      powerful enough to ensure their silence. The surgeon seems an honest kind of man, and may be
      relied upon: besides, he would seriously compromise himself were he to breathe a word of this
      strange occurrence. As for the other person—he who came to tell me what had taken place, and
      brought me hither this evening—I have agreed to purchase his silence and that of a comrade,
      who, it appears, was engaged with him in the business."  
  "I know you cannot afford to do any such thing," said old Michael, speaking with somewhat of
      that bluntness, or even gruffness of manner, which had characterised him in past times; "and I
      won't have you get yourself into difficulties on my account."  
  "Believe me, I can afford it," returned Tomlinson.  
  "You can't. You told me just now that you were struggling against many difficulties. How
      much are you going to give these scoundrels?"  
  "A mere trifle—nothing beyond my means—"  
  "How much?" demanded old Michael, imperatively.  
  "Two hundred pounds."  
  "Two hundred pounds! It can't—and it shan't be done, Mr. Tomlinson. You have not got two
      hundred pounds: I know you have not."  
  "I am to receive five hundred this evening for certain professional services to be
      rendered," said Tomlinson; "and I can readily spare a portion to ensure a silence which is
      necessary not only to your safety but to mine."  
  "True—  your   safety," muttered old Michael, whose thoughts seemed ever fixed upon the
      welfare of his late employer. "Well—well, I suppose it must be done. Do it, then."  
  Another long pause ensued.  
  Suddenly Martin turned towards Tomlinson, and said, in a sharp querulous tone, "You told me
      that you were going to receive five hundred pounds this evening?"  
  "Such is my hope," answered the stock-broker, averting his glances from the old man.  
  "Ah! you can't look me in the face," exclaimed Michael, almost savagely. "Where are you
      going to get that money from?"  
  "From a client—for whom I am to do business—of a certain nature," faltered Tomlinson.  
  "Certain nature, indeed! What is it?"  
    
  "Professional business in one evening, that will produce five hundred pounds," said the old
      man, dwelling emphatically upon every word: then, after a pause, he added abruptly, "I don't
      believe it."  
  "I declare most solemnly that I am telling you the truth," cried Tomlinson, somewhat hurt by
      Michael's manner and observations.  
  "So much the worse for you, then," rejoined the old man, laconically. "The business you are
      to perform for that sum is not honest."  
  Tomlinson was about to make some excuse to put an end to the topic by an evasive reply, when
      Michael Martin raised himself to a sitting posture in the bed, and, fixing his eyes upon his
      late master, exclaimed, with strange emphasis of manner, "Have you not seen enough—experienced
      enough—and suffered enough, to render you timorous in re-embarking upon the great ocean of
      chicanery, duplicity, and crime? Be you well assured that though the currents of that ocean
      may float you prosperously along for a season, they will sooner or later dash you against a
      sunken rock, and shipwreck you beyond redemption. Oh!" he continued, his ghastly countenance
      becoming animated with the ruddy tinge of excitement, and fire once more sparkling from his
      glassy eyes,—"Oh! if you had only passed through all that I have within these last few days,
      you would not neglect so terrible a warning! Do you know,"—and his utterance became rapid and
      eloquent,—"do you know that I have passed the limits of the tomb, and have wandered in the
      worlds beyond? Do you know that I have learnt the grand—the sublime—the supernal secret of
      eternity? Yes—when the breath left this mortal clay, my soul winged its flight into the
      regions of infinite space! With the rapidity of a whirlwind I was hurried away from the earth;
      and, although I was nothing but a spirit,   and could not touch myself  , yet had I ears
      to hear, and eyes to see, and organs to receive sensations. I was permitted to wander amidst
      the regions of eternal bliss, and to penetrate into the mysteries of hell. O God! I tasted of
      the joys of the former, and was equally compelled to submit to the torments of the latter—each
      for a little space! Ah! sir, can you not divine wherefore the Almighty from time to time
      plunges mortals into a trance—submits them to the dominion of death for a season? It is that
      he may snatch away their souls, to lead them into the celestial mansions, and precipitate them
      into the depths of Satan's kingdom,—so that, when restored to their mortal clay, they may
      teach their fellow-creatures the grand truths of eternity—they may announce to them that there
      is a heaven to reward, and a hell to punish! And the Almighty made choice of me,—of
         me  , a grovelling worm, one of the most obscure and humble of his creatures,—He made
      choice of   me  , I say, to become the means through which His warning voice might speak
      to   you   and   others  ! What the pleasures of heaven are, or of what the torments
      of hell consist, I dare not say: suffice it for you to know that there   is   a heaven,
      and there   is   a hell—and the former exceeds all idea which man can conceive of bliss,
      while the latter surpasses every thing which he can imagine of horror! Be warned, then, by me,
      James Tomlinson—be warned by one who for four days was snatched away from earth, and, during
      that period was initiated in the mighty secrets of Eternity!"  
  The old man fell back in the bed, exhausted.  
  Tomlinson had at first listened to him with sorrow and alarm: he trembled lest the delirium
      of a fever had suddenly overtaken him—lest his brain was wandering. But as he proceeded—in a
      style of galvanic force and eloquence of which the listener, who had known him for so many
      years, deemed him incapable,—in a manner so inconsistent with all his former habits, so
      strangely at variance with his nature, his character, and his disposition,—the stock-broker
      became afraid, for it seemed to him as if those burning, searching, searing, scorching words
      were indeed an emanation from a source belonging to the mysteries of other worlds.  
  An awful pause ensued when Michael Martin ceased to speak.  
  For some moments Tomlinson sate riveted in speechless terror to his chair—stunned,
      bewildered, astounded, appalled by all he had just heard.  
  That dread silence was at length interrupted by the entrance of the surgeon.  
  "How gets on my patient now?" he said, approaching the couch.  
  "I fear—I am afraid—that is, I think—his head, wanders," faltered the stock-broker, scarcely
      knowing what he said.  
  "We must expect that such will be the case—for some days to come," returned the surgeon,
      with the coolness of a professional man who saw nothing extraordinary in such results
      following so strange a resuscitation from a death-like trance.  
  "You think, then," asked Tomlinson, "that it is possible for this poor old man to rave—about
      things of—a very extraordinary nature?"  
  "People, when delirious, burst forth into the most wild and fanciful ravings," answered the
      surgeon, as he felt Michael's pulse.  
  "And   he   might, then, rave of heaven—and hell—and things relating to—"  
  "He may rave of any nonsense," said the surgeon, abruptly; "but that is no reason why we
      should allow ourselves to be affected by it—as I see that you are."  
  "It was, indeed, very foolish on my part," observed Tomlinson, now acquiring confidence, and
      endeavouring to divest himself of the strange sensations of horror and dread which the
      eloquence of the old man had excited within him.  
  "You had better retire for the present," said the surgeon. "He is in a high fever—produced,
      perhaps, by this interview with you, under such circumstances. Do not think of seeing him
      again this evening: to-morrow evening he will be better and more composed."  
  "And you will take every possible care of him," exclaimed the stock-broker. "Remember that
      no expense most be spared to make him comfortable—to ensure his recovery. I will remunerate
      you handsomely, sir."  
  "Well, well," said the surgeon, impatiently. "We will talk about that another time. Good
      evening—you may return to-morrow at the same hour."  
  "Good evening," answered Tomlinson; and he slowly took his departure.  
  
  CHAPTER CXI. A SCENE AT MR. CHICHESTER'S HOUSE.  
    
  Mr. Chichester himself was seated in an elegantly-furnished parlour, sipping a glass of
      excellent Madeira, and pondering upon the best means of enjoying himself when he should have
      fingered the cash to obtain which he had perpetrated so diabolical an outrage against the
      confiding woman who had bestowed upon him her hand, and made him a partner in the enjoyment,
      if not in the actual possession, of her fortune.  
  The room was not large, but very comfortable; and at one end a pair of ample folding doors,
      now closed, afforded admission into a back parlour.  
  A few moments after the echo of the double-knock above mentioned, through the house, a
      female servant entered and announced Mr. Tomlinson.  
  Having requested the stock-broker to be seated, Mr. Chichester followed the servant into the
      hall, and said to her in a low whisper, "When the   other person   comes, show him into
      the back parlour, as I may require to have some conversation with this gentleman before I
      introduce them to each other."  
  This command being given, Mr. Chichester returned to the room where he had left Mr.
      Tomlinson.  
  "You are before your time," said Chichester, pushing the decanter and a glass towards the
      stock-broker: "that looks like business."  
  "I accidentally had an appointment upon some business in this neighbourhood," was the reply;
      "and when that matter was disposed of, I came straight hither."  
  "We cannot repair to the lunatic asylum until ten or half-past," said Chichester, "because,
      as a precaution, the keeper has promised to call upon me presently, and report whether my wife
      continues in the same docile mood as when he wrote to me yesterday afternoon."  
  "I should be delighted to hear that you could settle this unpleasant—very unpleasant affair
      in some amicable way," returned Tomlinson, whose mind was still painfully excited by the
      interview which had taken place between him and his late cashier.  
  "Impossible, my dear sir!" ejaculated Chichester. "There is no way save the one chalked out.
      I hope that you do not hesitate to fulfil the agreement into which you entered with me."  
  "The truth is, Mr. Chichester," said Tomlinson, "there is no man in London to whom a few
      hundreds of pounds would prove so welcome as to me—especially as to-morrow I have to pay two
      hundred to men who will not be very well pleased to experience a disappointment. It is true
      that I possess such a sum at my bankers'; but I dare not draw out every shilling—my credit
      would be ruined."  
  "So much the better reason for doing as I require of you," said Chichester, filling the
      glasses with Madeira.  
  "True," observed Tomlinson. "But, on the other hand, I tremble to take a false step—I fear
      to jeopardize myself by connivance at a direct conspiracy—"  
  "Pshaw!" cried Chichester. "What is the use of compunction on the part of a man who stands
      in so much need of money as yourself?"  
  Tomlinson was about to reply, when a low knock at the front door fell upon his ears.  
  "It is no one—of any consequence," said Chichester; then, as he re-filled the glasses, he
      muttered to himself, "There is no use in introducing these men to each other, unless this
      milk-and-water fool is quite agreeable to act."  
  "Did you make an observation?" inquired the stock-broker.  
  "I was observing that it was no one of any consequence;—only some person for the servants,
      most probably. But let me now ask you seriously, Mr. Tomlinson, whether you feel disposed to
      proceed further in this matter or not?"  
  "Candidly speaking, I would rather not," was the reply.  
  "Then you were wrong to give me a false hope of your aid, and allow so much valuable time to
      elapse, during which I might have found a broker less punctilious than you."  
  "I regret that I should have caused this inconvenience," answered Tomlinson; "but I had
      resolved to perform my promise until about an hour ago, and I have even brought the necessary
      documents for the purpose."  
  "Something very remarkable must have intervened to change your resolutions," said
      Chichester, contemptuously.  
  "I am not superstitions," observed Tomlinson; "but I believe that a providential warning was
      conveyed to me—"  
  "A providential fiddle-stick! Remember, Mr. Tomlinson, that by your unpardonable vacillation
      in this matter you will only prolong the incarceration of my wife."  
  "And, pray, who is responsible for that deed?"  
  "We will not discuss this point," returned Chichester. "I did not ask you to become my
      Mentor. At the same time," he added, sinking his voice, "every moment is important—for my wife
      is going mad in reality!"  
  "Then, in the name of God, release her at once!" ejaculated Tomlinson.  
  "Never—until she signs the deed."  
  "Release her," continued Tomlinson; "and then bring her with you to my office, where she can
      make the transfer."  
  "Are you mad yourself? Do you suppose she would ever put pen to paper if she were once
      liberated in that manner? I am surprised at your ignorance—vexed at your cowardice. You have
      not acted like a man of business, nor as a man of the world. It was for you to accept or
      decline my proposal—not to deceive me by these changes and shiftings of inclination. Come,
      sir—once for all—pluck up your courage: remember the two hundred pounds which you say must be
      paid to-morrow to two men who will not be put off, and the settlement of which debt will so
      materially embarrass your finances."  
  "My mind is made up, Mr. Chichester," answered Tomlinson firmly.  
  "And what is your decision?"  
  "I shall beg to withdraw from the transaction."  
  And Tomlinson rose to depart.  
  But at the same moment the folding-doors, communicating with the inner room, were thrown
      open, and a man with a cadaverous countenance stood forward.  
  "You shall   not   forfeit your word in this respect," exclaimed the individual, whom
      Tomlinson immediately recognised to be the body-snatcher engaged in the affair of Michael
      Martin.  
  "What does this man do here?" asked Tomlinson, in a faint voice, of Chichester.  
  "What do I do here? what do I do every where?" cried the man, with a diabolical laugh.  
   morning,—little did I imagine when I met you again this evening, that
         you   were the person enlisted by Mr. Chichester in the affair which we have now in
      hand."  
  "It would appear, then, that you are acquainted with each other," said Chichester, laughing
      heartily at the confusion manifested by the stock-broker in the presence of the Resurrection
      Man. "Why, what devilry was it that brought you two together?"  
  "Whether I keep Mr. Tomlinson's secret, or whether I proclaim it to you and every one else
      whom I know, until the whole town rings with the circumstance, is a matter for him to decide,"
      said the Resurrection Man;—and, with admirable coolness, he helped himself to a bumper of
      Madeira.  
  "If I pay you two hundred pounds, as agreed upon," exclaimed Tomlinson, "what more would you
      require of me?"  
  "I require that you remain faithful to your promise to Mr. Chichester;—I require that you
      fulfil the service which you have undertaken to perform in his behalf," was the resolute
      reply.  
  "And in what way does the business regard you—you, who acknowledge yourself to be—"  
  "A resurrectionist! Certainly I am—and the most skilful in London, no other excepted,"
      exclaimed Tidkins, with a satanic chuckle. "But that does not prevent me from turning
      mad-house keeper—or any thing else—when opportunity offers."  
  "What!   you   are the keeper of the asylum in which this gentleman's wife is
      imprisoned!" exclaimed the stock-broker, in a tone of the most profound astonishment.  
  "Yes, he is indeed," said Chichester; "and a better keeper could not have been found. So now
      you know all about that point."  
  "And Mr. Tomlinson will be good enough to accompany   me   to my house," observed the
      Resurrection Man. "You, Mr. Chichester, can follow us at a little distance. It looks
      suspicious for three people to walk together."  
  "I really must decline—" began Tomlinson, trembling from head to foot, as the warning voice
      of Michael Martin seemed to ring in his ears.  
  "One word more, Mr. Tomlinson," said the Resurrection Man. "I am a person of determined
      spirit and resolution. I never stick at trifles myself; and I don't choose others, with whom I
      am connected, to balk me in my designs, when I can prevent them. Now, either come with me, and
      do what is required of you; or, as sure as there is breath in your body, I will deliver up a
      certain person to the police, and stand the consequences myself."  
  "I beg of you—I implore you—"  
  "Pshaw!" cried Chichester: "this is child's play!"  
  "Child's play, indeed!" thundered the Resurrection Man in a terrible voice. "But I will put
      an end to it. Come, sir—hesitate another minute, and   that old man   is lost!"  
  "I will accompany you," answered the stock-broker;—then, in an under tone, he added, "But
      God knows how unwillingly!"  
  The Resurrection Man seized him by the arm, and conducted him out of the house.  
  Five minutes afterwards, Chichester followed in the same direction.  
  
  CHAPTER CXII. VIOLA.  
  THE Resurrection Man and the stock-broker pursued their way in silence to the very entrance
      of the alley leading to the side door of the dwelling of the former.  
  There they halted, the Resurrection Man observing that they must wait for Mr.
      Chichester.  
  Tomlinson took advantage of the interval to implore the Resurrection Man not to communicate
      to Chichester the secret relating to Michael Martin.  
  "Do not be afraid," was the answer: "I am as close as Newgate-door when people conduct
      themselves as they ought to do. One individual for whom I do business never knows what I am
      engaged in for another—unless his own bad behaviour forces me to blab. So make yourself quite
      easy upon that score."  
  Chichester now made his appearance; and the Resurrection Man led the way up the alley.  
  Having opened the door of the house, he admitted his two companions into the back-room on
      the ground-floor, and then struck a light.  
  The appearance of the place was precisely the same as when we described it on the first
      occasion of the Rattlesnake's visit to that department of the building.  
  Tomlinson shuddered as he cast his eyes around the naked and gloomy walls.  
  "Holloa!" ejaculated Chichester, taking up the mask, which lay on the table, in his hands:
      "I suppose that this—"  
  "Hush!" said the Resurrection Man, glancing towards Tomlinson, as much as to desire
      Chichester not to allow the stock-broker to know more of the secrets connected with the
      treatment of the prisoner, than was possible; for Tidkins, who possessed a profound knowledge
      of human nature, was well aware that certain compunctious feelings still floated in the mind
      of Tomlinson, and that he was, after all, but a very coward in the ways of crime.  
  Chichester covered the mask with the cloak, while the stock-broker was engaged in scanning
      the appearance of the chamber.  
  When Tomlinson had completed his survey, and while he was still wondering where the means of
      communication with the apartment of the alleged lunatic could be, he happened to turn in the
      direction of the chimney-piece, when to his surprise he perceived the hearth-stone raised, and
      the Resurrection Man half down the subterranean staircase which that strangely contrived
      trap-door had disclosed to view.  
  Tomlinson shuddered—and hesitated whether he should proceed further in the matter; but his
      scruples vanished when he heard the voice of the Resurrection Man desiring—or rather
      commanding him—to follow him down that flight of stone steps.  
  Guided by Tidkins, who carried the candle, which was fixed in one of the large tin shades
      before described, Tomlinson descended the stairs, and found himself in a vaulted passage,
      about twenty feet long, and four broad. There were four strong doors, studded with thick iron
      nails, on each side.  
  "You see, this house was built for a lunatic asylum many—many years ago, when treatment
      wasn't quite so humane as it is now," whispered the Resurrection Man to Tomlinson; "but it
      hadn't been used as such for the last thirty years till the other day."  
   purpose of restoring it to its original uses?" demanded Tomlinson, shuddering,
      as he glanced around on the damp walls on which the strong light of the candle fell.  
  "Not I, indeed," answered Tidkins, abruptly.  
  Chichester had now descended into the subterranean passage.  
  "This is the cell," said the Resurrection Man; and, approaching one of the doors, he placed
      a key in the lock.  
  During the few seconds that intervened until the door was thrown open, Tomlinson experienced
      a perfect age of mental agony. He felt as if he were about to perpetrate some hideous crime—a
      murder of the blackest dye. The perspiration poured off his forehead: he trembled from head to
      foot; his brain felt oppressed; there was a weight upon the pit of his stomach; his eye-balls
      throbbed.  
  Yes—he was a very coward in guilt!  
  The door flew open.  
  The Resurrection Man entered first, and advanced into the middle of a small arched cell—a
      stone tomb, built to immure the living!  
  A decent bed, a table, a chair, a wash-hand-stand, and a lamp, which was lighted, together
      with a few other necessaries, composed the furniture of that dungeon.  
  And stretched upon the bed, with her clothes on, lay the victim of this cruel
      persecution.  
  The glare of the Resurrection Man's candle fell upon a pale, but not unpleasing countenance:
      the long chesnut hair spread, dishevelled, over the arm that supported the head.  
  The sleep of that lady was deep but uneasy—such a slumber as might be supposed to fall upon
      the eyes of the criminal the night before his execution.  
  Her bosom heaved convulsively; and from her lips escaped a stifled sob as the three men
      entered the cell.  
  Chichester was about to place his hand upon her shoulder in order to arouse her, when she
      opened her eyes, and started up to a sitting posture on the bed.  
  "Villains!" she exclaimed: "would you murder me?"  
  "No such thing, my dear," said Chichester. "We have merely come to terminate this unpleasant
      business in the way proposed by Mr. Tidkins."  
  "The wretch!" cried Viola, casting a glance of doubt and uncertainty at both Tomlinson and
      the Resurrection Man.  
  "Ah! I dare say I am, ma'am, in   your   estimation," said Tidkins, coolly. "Oh! you
      needn't look at me in that way, ma'am. I will acknowledge that I am your keeper in this
      establishment; and that it's me who has been good enough to bring you food every night."  
  "The wretch!" again cried the unhappy lady, while a profound shudder seemed to convulse her
      whole frame as she surveyed the Resurrection Man from head to foot. "It is you, then," she
      continued, leaping from the bed, and confronting the miscreant, "it is you who have dared to
      practise upon my fears in a manner the most diabolical—the most cowardly;—you who have chosen
      the solemn hour of midnight for your visits, and who have come in a guise calculated to fill
      my mind with the most horrible imaginings!"  
  "Remember our agreement, ma'am," said Tidkins, sternly. "You pledged yourself to forget the
      past upon certain conditions: we are here to fulfil those conditions. Do you mean to keep your
      word? or must we leave you to your solitude?"  
  "Who is this gentleman?" demanded Viola, casting a penetrating glance upon Tomlinson.  
  "The stock-broker, my dear," answered Chichester: "the person who will receive your
      signature to a certain little paper—"  
  "Then, sir," interrupted the lady, addressing herself to James Tomlinson, "as you exercise
      an honourable profession, prove yourself an honourable man in this respect. You see before you
      a powerless female, who was weak enough to bestow her hand upon a villain—a villain that has
      immured her, by the aid of another villain of even a deeper dye than himself, in this horrible
      vault! Perhaps they have told you that I am mad, sir; but do I speak like one whose reason has
      abandoned her? or would you receive the signature of a person who knew not what she signed?
      Oh! no, sir—you cannot believe that I am in mental darkness! you must perceive the full extent
      of the villany that has been practised against me, for the purpose of plundering me of that
      property which I received from my former husband! Oh! if you be a man possessing one spark of
      honour—as I must suppose that you are—"  
  "Come—a truce to all this," said Mr. Chichester. "The gentleman to whom you are addressing
      yourself knows the whole affair, and will act   with   and   for   me."  
  "Is this true, sir?" asked the unhappy lady, casting a glance of mingled terror and
      supplication upon the stock-broker, and clasping her hands together: "can this be true? Is it
      possible that a person exercising an honourable profession can league with wretches of their
      stamp?"—and she pointed disdainfully towards the Resurrection Man and Chichester. "Oh! no, it
      cannot be! At least, hear me! I married that man—"  
  "Don't I tell you that Mr. Tomlinson knows all," cried Chichester, impatiently. "We did not
      come to debate upon the past, but to settle for the future."  
  "You have come, then, to plunder a weak, helpless, persecuted female," continued Viola. "But
      do you know, sir, the terrible means that have been adopted to wring from me a consent to part
      with half the property which was bequeathed to me by a man that loved me—a man who toiled for
      years and years to amass the fortune that must now be devoted to the extravagances of a
      spendthrift? Would you believe to what an extent the cruelty, the cowardice of that man,"—and
      she pointed to Tidkins,—"has been carried to terrify me into compliance with the demands of
      his employer? Sir, for three weeks and three days have I been a prisoner in this dungeon; and
      every night—without fail—has that miscreant visited me in a disguise which, in such a place,
      and at such an hour, would make the stoutest heart palpitate with horror,—a disguise of such a
      nature that this is the first time that I have seen his face; for on the fatal evening when I
      was seized and brought to this dungeon, every thing was involved in utter obscurity;—and then,
      when the door opened again, and a light gleamed in upon me,—O God! it was carried by a person
      dressed in a dark cloak and a white mask—like a being of another world!"  
  "Surely you did not go to such extremes as this?" exclaimed Tomlinson, turning sharply round
      upon the Resurrection Man.  
   chooses to consent to the terms proposed to her."  
  Tomlinson glanced, with a look of deep sympathy, towards the lady, who stood in an attitude
      of supplication and despair before him. Her dishevelled hair hung loosely over her shoulders:
      her countenance, though not beautiful, was naturally interesting, and was now rendered more so
      by its extreme pallor and by the expression of profound melancholy which it wore; and her mild
      blue eyes were raised towards him as if to implore his aid—his compassion.  
  "Now, what is to be done?" demanded Chichester.  
  "It is for this gentleman to decide," said the lady, still gazing upon Tomlinson's
      countenance. "You may well suppose that I am desirous to recover the liberty which has thus
      been infamously violated;—but if you, sir, possess one germ of generous feeling—one spark of
      honour—one gleam of humanity in your soul, do not—do not lend yourself to this infamy! Command
      these men to restore me to freedom—they cannot refuse to obey you! Oh! sir—hear me—do not
      avert your head: hear me—hear me, I implore you!"  
  "This is quite enough of folly for one time," ejaculated the Resurrection Man: "I have been
      an idiot myself to listen to it so long. Mr. Tomlinson, are you prepared to receive the
      signature of this lady to the deed that will transfer to her husband a certain portion of her
      property?"—then, approaching his lips to the stock-broker's ear, he murmured in a low whisper,
      "Hesitate—and I denounce your late clerk within an hour!"  
  These words operated like magic upon the weak-minded and timid James Tomlinson. He no longer
      beheld the supplicating woman before him: he only saw his own danger.  
  Accordingly, he advanced towards the table, drew forth a document from his pocket, and said,
      in a cold tone, "I am ready to receive that lady's signature."  
  The Resurrection Man produced an ink-bottle and pens (with which he had purposely provided
      himself beforehand) from his pocket; and placed them upon the table.  
  Tomlinson seated himself in the chair, and proceeded to fill up the paper.  
  "In whose favour is the transfer to be made?" he demanded.  
  "Then, sir, you are determined to league with my oppressors?" said Viola, in a tone
      expressive of concentrated feelings of indignation and despair.  
  "Madam, I am unfortunately compelled—"  
  "Say no more, sir," interrupted the lady, with a contemptuous curl of the lip. "If you came
      hither a villain, I must be mad indeed to hope to make you an honest man by any reasoning of
      mine."  
  "Madam, you wrong me, by heavens!" ejaculated Tomlinson, throwing down the pen.  
  But at the same moment his wrist was seized with a grasp of iron, and a well-known voice
      whispered in his ear, "Hesitate another moment, and I denounce you and your cashier
      together!"  
  Tomlinson became docile as a child, resumed the pen, and said, "In whose favour is this
      transfer to be made?"  
  "In that of Mr. Arthur Chichester," answered Viola, firmly.  
  "What is the amount to be so transferred?"  
  "Eight thousand pounds, being part of a sum now standing in my name in the Three-and-a-Half
      per cents.," replied the injured woman, still with an outward composure, which was not,
      however, the reflection of her inward feelings.  
  Tomlinson filled up the paper according to the instructions which he received.  
  Then, addressing himself to Viola, but without turning his eyes towards her, he said, "You
      are aware, madam, that this document is ante-dated by two months?"  
  "I am, sir."  
  "Nothing now remains, then, madam, save for you to sign it."  
  Viola advanced slowly towards the table, took up the pen, and seemed to be about to affix
      her signature to the deed, when—as if suddenly recollecting herself—she turned towards the
      stock-broker, and exclaimed, "What guarantee have I that my freedom is to follow this
      concession on my part?"  
  "To-morrow evening, at dusk, you shall be conveyed home," exclaimed Chichester, seeing that
      Tomlinson gave no answer.  
  "And why not this evening—now—the moment that document is signed?"  
  "Because I should prefer laying my hand on the money first," was the reply.  
  "Mr. Tomlinson," cried the lady, "I have more confidence in you than in either of these men:
      I am willing even to believe that some circumstance, unknown to me, compels you unwillingly to
      become their instrument on this occasion."  
  "By heavens, you speak the truth, madam!" ejaculated Tomlinson, warmly.  
  "I believe you. Now, sir, promise me on your most solemn word of honour—by every thing you
      consider sacred—- that to-morrow evening at nine o'clock I shall be released from this
      dungeon."  
  "I promise—I swear that you shall be conveyed home to-morrow evening at nine o'clock,"
      answered Tomlinson. "But, in return, madam, will you pledge yourself as solemnly that your
      lips shall ever remain closed with regard to this proceeding?"  
  "Oh! yes—I do—I do," answered the poor creature, clasping her hands together—for she could
      even feel grateful to the man who, while leagued with others against her, yet pledged himself
      to her release from that horrible cell.  
  "Secresy on all sides is one of the conditions of the present arrangement," said
      Chichester.  
  "And if the lady breaks that condition," added the Resurrection Man, "she would repent it;
      for let her be surrounded by friends—let her be protected by a regiment of soldiers—let her
      take refuge in the Queen's palace, I would still find means to tear her away, and bring her
      back to this dungeon."  
  Tomlinson and the lady both cast a glance of mingled horror and surprise at the formidable
      individual who thus spoke so confidently of his power and resolution.  
  There was a moment's pause.  
  Viola then took up the pen, and, with a firm hand, affixed her signature to the
      document.  
  "I am now at your mercy," she said, in a tone rather of supplication than of menace or
      mistrust.  
  "You need not be afraid that we shall deceive you, my dear," observed Chichester, with a
      smile.  
  A reply rose to the lips of his injured wife; but she suppressed it—though with difficulty.
      She was no doubt afraid to irritate the man in whose power she still found herself, by giving
      utterance to her thoughts.  
  "No—there's nothing to be afraid of," said the Resurrection Man. "The lady has fulfilled her
      part of the bargain, and we will perform ours. As for her keeping this little business dark, I
      feel confident about   that   disturbance merely to get back the money, that would be useless, when once it
      had found its way into the pockets of her husband."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Having concluded this brutal speech, the Resurrection Man desired his companions to await
      his return for a moment, while he proceeded to fetch the lady her provisions for the next
      four-and-twenty hours.  
  He accordingly hastened up the steps to the little back room, whence he speedily returned
      with his basket in his hand.  
  "You see that I expected how all this would end," he observed, with a hideous smile; "and so
      I prepared a little treat for the lady. Here's a prime fowl; that brown paper contains ham;
      here's a new loaf; and this is a bottle of as excellent sherry as one need drink."  
  The Resurrection Man placed the articles, as he enumerated them, upon the table; and Viola
      was pleased as she contemplated them—because she perceived in this indulgence an earnest that
      the promise of her persecutors would be fulfilled with respect to her restoration to
      liberty.  
  "We must now take leave of Mrs. Chichester," said Tidkins. "To-morrow evening, ma'am, at
      nine precisely, you shall be free."  
  The three men then left the dungeon.  
  But ere the door closed upon the inmate once more, she moved forward, caught Tomlinson by
      the hand, and said in an emphatic tone, "Remember your solemn promise!"  
  "Do not be alarmed, madam. There can be no interest to detain you here beyond
      to-morrow."  
  Viola retreated into the dungeon; and the door was shut.  
  She heard the three persons who had just left her retire from the subterranean prison: the
      closing of the trap-door also fell upon her ears.  
  Clasping her hands together, she exclaimed, "God grant that they may not deceive me!"  
  And then a vague terror stole upon her,—a horrible, an absorbing dread lest those men
      intended to immure her for life in that solitary cell, or else restore her to liberty only
      when they should have extorted from her the remainder of her fortune.  
   as this that they have practised towards me,—will they remain satisfied with a
      portion of the gold that has allured them to violate every principle of honour and humanity?
      Oh! no—no! and perhaps—to conceal their crime the more effectually—they will not hesitate to
      imbrue their hands in my blood!"  
  Overpowered by this idea, the unhappy woman threw herself upon the bed, and wept
      bitterly.  
  That torrent of tears relieved her; and in a few minutes she grew somewhat composed.  
  Then came reflections of a less painful nature.  
  "Still—still there was something honest in the appearance of that stock-broker: there was
      something feeling in his words! He was performing a task against which his soul revolted. He
      commiserated my condition: oh! yes—he sympathised with me! In him is my hope—my only hope! I
      need not quite despair!"  
  She thus reasoned herself into a state of comparative calmness; and then a feeling of
      weakness came over her. She grew faint—her head swam round.  
  She rose, and walked up and down the cell to dispel the sensation that thus oppressed her;
      and suddenly she recollected that many hours had elapsed since she had eaten any thing. Her
      eyes fell upon the viands which the Resurrection Man had placed on the table; and she hastened
      to break her long fast. When she had partaken of a morsel of food, she poured some wine into a
      glass and drank it.  
  Scarcely, however, had she swallowed the liquor, when she felt herself overpowered by a deep
      drowsiness; the glass dropped from her hands; she rose from the chair, advanced a few paces,
      and then fell upon the bed in a state of insensibility.  
  
  CHAPTER CXIII. THE LOVERS.  
  THE morning, which succeeded the night that witnessed the incidents just detailed, was
      clear, frosty, and fine. It was one of those winter mornings when the soil is as hard as iron,
      but on which the sun shines with gay light if not with genial heat. On such a morning we walk
      abroad with a consciousness that the exercise benefits us: we feel the blood acquiring a more
      rapid circulation in our veins; we soon experience a pleasant glow pervading the frame; our
      spirits become exhilarated; and we learn that even Winter has its peculiar charms.  
  Such was the feeling that animated Richard Markham, as, after alighting from a public
      vehicle at Richmond, he proceeded rapidly along a by-road that led through the fields at the
      back of Count Alteroni's mansion.  
  His cheeks were tinged with a glow that set off his handsome features to the greatest
      advantage: his dark eyes sparkled with an expression of joy and hope; a smile played upon his
      lip; and he walked with his head erect as if he felt proud of his existence—because that
      existence, in spite of its vicissitudes, was protected by some auspicious star.  
  O Love! art thou not a star full of hope and promise, like that which guided the sages of
      the East to the cradle of their Redeemer?—like the welcome planet which heralds the dauntless
      mariner over the midnight seas?—like the twinkling orb which points the right track to the
      Arab wanderer of the desert?  
  Richard Markham pursued his way—his soul full of hope, and love, and bliss.  
  At a distance of about a quarter of a mile on his right hand, the mansion of Count Alteroni
      soon met his eyes, surrounded by the evergreens that, in contrast with the withered trees
      elsewhere, gave to the spot where it stood the air of an oasis in the midst of a desert.  
  Markham's heart beat quickly when that well-known dwelling met his view; and for a moment a
      shade of melancholy passed over his countenance, for he recalled to mind the happy hours he
      had once spent within its walls.  
  But that transitory cloud vanished from his brow, when his eye caught a glimpse, in another
      instant, of a sylph-like form that was threading a leafless grove at a little distance.  
  Richard redoubled his steps, and was led, by the circuitous winding of the path that he was
      pursuing, somewhat nearer to the Count's mansion.  
  In a few minutes he reached the very spot where, in the preceding spring, he had
      accidentally encountered Isabella, and where she assured him of her unchanged and unchangeable
      love.  
  He is now on that spot once more:—he pauses—looks around—and Isabella again approaches.  
  Richard rushes forward, and clasps the beauteous Italian maiden in his arms.  
  "Isabella—dearest Isabella! What good angel prompted you to grant me this interview?" he
      exclaimed, when the first effusion of joy was over.  
  "Do you think me indiscreet, Richard?" asked the signora, taking his arm, and glancing
      timidly towards his countenance.  
  "Indiscreet, my sweet girl!" cried her lover: "Oh! how can you suppose that I would
      entertain a harsh feeling with regard to that goodness on your part which doubtless instigated
      you to afford me the happiness of this meeting?"  
  "But when we met here—seven or eight months ago, Richard," said Isabella, "I told you that
      never—never would I consent to a stolen interview. And now—you may imagine—"  
  "I imagine that you love me, Isabella—love me as I love you," exclaimed Markham; "and what
      other idea can occupy my thoughts when that one is present? Oh! you know not the ineffable
      joy—the unequalled pleasure which I experienced when your letter reached me yesterday. I
      recognised your handwriting immediately; and I seized the letter with avidity, when it was
      brought to me in my study. And then, Isabella—will you believe me when I tell you that I
      trembled to open it? I laid it upon the table—my hand refused to break the seal. Pardon
      me—forgive me, if for a moment I feared—"  
  "That I had forgotten my vows—my plighted affection," faltered Isabella, reproachfully.  
  "Again I say pardon—forgive me, dearest girl; but—oh! I have been so very unfortunate!"  
  "Think not of the past, Richard," said Isabella, tenderly.  
  "The past! Oh! how can I cease to ponder upon the past, when it has nearly bereaved me of
      all hope for the future?" exclaimed Markham, in an impassioned tone.  
  "Not   all   hope," murmured Isabella; "since hope still remains to   me  !"  
  "Angel that thou art!" cried Richard, pressing the maiden's hand fondly. "How weak I am,
      since it is from thee that moral courage ever is imparted."  
    
  "True! But so many emotions—joy and hope—sorrowful reminiscences and brighter prospects,
      bewilder me! I will, however, try to talk calmly! When your letter came, I feared to open it
      for some moments: I dreaded a new calamity! But at length I called all my firmness to my aid;
      and a terrible weight was taken from my soul, when my eye glanced at the first lines of that
      letter which suddenly became as dear and welcome as a reprieve to the condemned criminal.
      Then, when I saw that my beloved Isabella still thought of me—still loved me—-"  
  "Oh, I did not tell you   that   in my letter," exclaimed Isabella, with a smile of
      bewitching archness.  
  "No—but I divined it—I gathered it from the words in which you conveyed to me your desire to
      see me—from the manner in which you said that at eleven o'clock this morning you should walk
      in the very place where we had met accidentally once before—oh! I suddenly became a new being:
      never was my heart so light!"  
  "And yet I said in my letter, Richard, that I wished to see you upon a matter of
      business——"  
  "Ah! Isabella, destroy not the charm which makes me happy! Let no cold thought of worldly
      things chill the heavenly fervour of our affection. Were it not for that love which
      reciprocally exists between us, how should I have supported the misfortunes that have
      multiplied upon me?"  
  "Again I say, Richard, allude not to the past. Alas! bitter—bitter were the tears that I
      wept on that fatal night when——"  
  "When I was publicly disgraced at the theatre—in the midst of a triumph. Yes—Isabella, you
      were there—there, when my shame was consummated!"  
  "Accident had led us to the theatre that evening," answered Isabella. "My father had heard
      that a new tragedy, of which grand hopes were entertained, was to be produced; and he insisted
      that I should accompany him and my mother. I was compelled to assent to his desire—although I
      prefer retirement and tranquillity to society and gaiety. You may conceive our
      astonishment—you may imagine   my   surprise and   my   joy, when you came forward
      to acknowledge the congratulations offered for a triumph so brilliantly achieved. And then—but
      let us leave that subject—my blood turns cold when I think of it!"  
  "Oh! go on—speak of it, speak of it!" exclaimed Markham, enthusiastically; "for although the
      reminiscence of that fearful scene be like pouring molten lead upon an open wound, still it is
      sweet—it is sweet, Isabella, to receive sympathy from such lips as yours."  
  "Alas! I have little more to say—except that the sudden intervention of that terrible man
      seemed to strike me as with the arrow of death; and I became insensible. Then,
       Richard,—  then  ," continued Isabella, in a low and tremulous tone, "my mother
      suspected my secret—or rather received a confirmation of the suspicion which she had long
      entertained!"  
  "And she shuddered at the mere idea?" exclaimed Markham, interrogatively.  
  "No, Richard: my mother is kind and good—and, you know, was always well disposed towards
      you: I have told you that much before! She said little—and of that no matter! But my father—my
      father——"  
  "He discovered   our   secret also!" exclaimed Richard. "Oh! did he not curse me?"  
  "He was cool and calm, when—on the following morning—he spoke to me upon the subject. I
      answered him frankly: I admitted my attachment for you."  
  "What did he say, Isabella! Tell me every thing—suppress not a word!"  
  "Oh, heavens! he made me very miserable," returned Isabella, tears trickling down her
      countenance. "But wherefore distress both yourself and me with a recapitulation of what
      ensued? Suffice it to say, that I collected all the arguments in my memory—and they were not a
      few;—and I presented to him that paper—the confession of Talbot, which proved your
      innocence!"  
  "Dearest girl!" exclaimed Markham, rapturously.  
  "He did not refuse to read it," added Isabella; "and at length, when I saw that I had made a
      profound impression on him, I turned the conversation upon the momentary reverse of fortune
      which had plunged him into a debtors' prison——"  
  "Isabella!" cried Markham, in surprise.  
  "And then I boldly declared my conviction that the unknown friend who had released him—the
      anonymous individual who had thrown open to him the gate leading to liberty—the nameless
      person, that had done so generous a deed, and accomplished it in a manner as delicate as it
      was noble,—was none other than Richard Markham!"  
  The tone of the Italian maiden had become more and more impassioned as she proceeded; and
      when she uttered the last words of the foregoing sentence, she turned upon him on whose arm
      she leant, a countenance glowing with animation, and radiant with gratitude and love.  
  "Oh, Isabella! you told your father   that  !" cried Markham. "And yet—you knew
      not——"  
  "My suspicion amounted almost to a certainty," interrupted Isabella: "and now I doubt no
      longer. Oh! Richard—if ever for one moment I had wavered in my love for you,—if ever an
      instant of coldness, arising from worldly reflections, had intervened to make me repent my
      solemn vows to you,—that   one   deed of yours—that noble sacrifice of your property,
      made to release my revered parent from a gaol,—that—that alone would have rendered my heart
      unalterably thine!"  
  "Beloved girl—this moment is the happiest of my life!" exclaimed Markham; and tears of joy
      filled his eyes, as he pressed the maiden once more to his heart.  
  "Yes, Richard," continued Isabella, after a long pause; and now her splendid countenance was
      lighted up with an expression of dignity and generous pride, and the timid, bashful maiden
      seemed changed into a lady whose brow was encircled with a diadem; "yes, Richard, if ever I
      felt that no deed nor act of mine shall separate us eternally—if ever I rejoiced in the
      prospect of possessing wealth, and receiving lustre from my father's princely rank——"  
  "Isabella!" exclaimed Richard, dropping the arm on which the Italian lady was leaning, and
      stepping back in the most profound astonishment: "Isabella, what mean you?"  
    
  Strange was the effect that this revelation produced upon the young man. He felt, as if,
      when in a burning heat, a mighty volume of icy water had suddenly been dashed over him: his
      head appeared to swim round—his sight grew dim—he staggered, and would have fallen had not
      Isabella rushed towards him, exclaiming, "Richard—dear Richard—do you not believe how much I
      love you?"  
  Those words produced an instantaneous change within him: those sweet syllables, uttered in
      the silvery tones of lovely woman's tenderness—recalled him to himself.  
  "Ah! Isabella," he exclaimed, mournfully, "how insuperable is the barrier which divides us
         now  !"  
  "And—if that barrier to which you allude, ever existed, was it less formidable when you were
      ignorant of the secret than it is at present?" asked Isabella, tenderly.  
  "It seems so to me," replied Richard. "Are you not placed on an eminence to which I never
      can hope to reach? have I not dared to lift my ambitious eyes towards a Princess—the daughter
      of one who will some day wear a sovereign crown? Oh! now the delusion is gone—I am awakened
      from a long dream! But, say—did your highness make this revelation to-day, in order to
      extinguish my adventurous aspirations at once and for ever?"  
  "Richard, you wrong me—cruelly wrong me!" exclaimed Isabella, bursting into tears.  
  "Forgive me—forgive me, sweetest, dearest girl!" cried Markham. "I was mad—I raved—I knew
      not what I said——"  
  "Richard, when we met here—once before—you doubted my affection, and then you asked me to
      forgive you! How often will you put my feelings to so cruel a test? how often will you renew
      those unjust suspicions?"  
  "O God! what have I done, that I should thus call tears to your eyes, Isabella? Forgive me,
      again—I say—forgive me: on my knees I implore——"  
  "No—no! I think no more of what you said," exclaimed Isabella. "Calm yourself for my
      sake!"—and she gazed so tenderly up into his countenance, that he was reassured, and all his
      doubts and fears vanished in a moment.  
  "Yes, Isabella," he said: "I am now calm; and you—you are an angel!"  
  "A mere terrestrial one, Richard, I am afraid," returned the Princess, with a smile. "And
      now let me speak to you upon the little matter of business to which I alluded in my note.
      After I had informed my father that you were the generous unknown who had been the means of
      his release from prison, he exclaimed, '  Excellent-hearted young man! How I have wronged
       him by my injurious suspicions concerning that night when the burglary was attempted at our
       home!  ' You see that I tell you his very words."  
  "Yes—tell me every thing, dear Isabella. And, thus, your father no longer believes——"  
  "How can he believe that any one would attempt to rob him one day, and pay nearly two
      thousand pounds for him another?" exclaimed Isabella. "Oh, no—he is disabused upon that point.
      Would that he were unprejudiced on others!"  
  "I understand you," said Markham, mournfully. "The Prince cannot consent to renew his
      acquaintance with one who has been subjected to an infamous punishment, and who aspires to the
      hand of his daughter."  
  "Alas! you have divined but too truly," returned Isabella, wiping away a tear.
      "Nevertheless, may we not hope? Already is one great point gained: my father believes that you
      may have been unfortunate, and not guilty. Oh! that is a great obstacle removed! And in my
      mother, Richard, you have a warm friend—although her prejudices of rank and family——"  
  "I can well comprehend the sentiments of her Highness," answered Markham: "and it is all
      that which now makes me fear lest——"  
  "Fear not—but hope every thing," said Isabella, who, however, poor girl! spoke in a more
      flattering manner than her secret thoughts would have warranted, had she consulted them; but
      she saw her lover oppressed and weighed down by the revelation of that secret which she had
      considered it unkind to retain any longer; and she did all she could to console him.  
  "Yes—I will hope, for both our sakes," said Richard.  
  "And now let me conclude my little narrative," continued Isabella. "My father resolved to
      repay you the money you had so generously advanced, the moment he was enabled; and as the
      Grand Duke of Castelcicala has settled upon him an income of ten thousand a-year, besides an
      immediate grant of forty thousand pounds,—boons which my father had only accepted because no
      political condition was attached to them, and because they are alleged to be an
      indemnification for his estates which have been confiscated,—he only awaited the arrival of
      his first remittances to acquit himself of that debt of honour. The day before yesterday he
      gave this letter," added Isabella, taking a small sealed packet from her reticule, "to one of
      our servants to convey to the post at Richmond. I demanded it back again privately of the
      servant, with the view of placing it myself in your hands, and—and taking the opportunity to
      reveal to you a secret which I did not think it right to keep from you any longer."  
  "I receive this packet, then, Isabella, with its contents," said Markham, pressing her hand
      as he took it, "because your father is happily in a position to repay me the trifle which I
      was enabled to disburse for his benefit. But ten thousand times more valuable is this sum to
      me, since its payment prompted you to grant me this interview."  
  "I had so much to tell you, Richard," answered the lady, with a deep blush, "that I could
      not commit it all to paper. I therefore adopted this plan—which perhaps is indiscreet——"  
  "Use not that epithet again, dear Isabella," interrupted Markham. "You assure me that you
      love me: can you then regret that you have made me happy by allowing me to see you—to talk to
      you—to embrace you once again? And yet, in the midst of that happiness, the sad thought
      intrudes upon me—'  When shall I see thee again?  '"  
  "Accident may throw us together soon—as it has done ere now," murmured Isabella:
      "accident—or rather Providence—does so much for us poor mortals."  
  "But, with your mother's prejudices in favour of rank and birth, and with your father's high
      destinies, what hope can exist for so humble an individual as myself? How can I dare aspire to
      the hand of a Princess of a powerful independent state?"  
  "Did not Miss Eliza Sydney espouse the Grand Duke of Castelcicala? and she—she also——"  
  "Oh! I remember," exclaimed Markham, seeing that Isabella hesitated,—"I remember that
         she   was unfortunate, as I was; and she also endured a weary imprisonment of two
      years. Yes—I accept the omen—it is an auspicious one!"  
  And Richard's handsome countenance was once more animated with a glow of hope and joy.  
  Then, in an access of enthusiasm, he exclaimed:  
  "Oh! if ever this fond aspiration should be realised,—if ever the humble and obscure
      Englishman were united to the high-born and brilliant Italian Princess, how sweet—how sweet
      would it be for him to owe rank and fortune to the woman whom he loved so fondly, and whom he
      would ever love until the hand of Death should beckon him to the tomb! For myself, I pant not
      for the honours and glories of this life; for hadst thou, Isabella, been the daughter of the
      lowest peasants, I had loved thee all the same—and had been far, far more contented, because
      the obstacles which now oppose our happiness might then have ceased to exist!"  
  "Believe me, Richard," answered Isabella, in a tone of witching tenderness, "believe me,
      that the happiest day of my life will be that when I can prove to you the extent of that
      affection with which you have inspired me;—and, again I repeat, that if ever I rejoiced in the
      prospect of that fortune which, whether my father eventually succeed to the ducal throne or
      not, he will be enabled to leave me,—and if ever I felt proud of that high station which my
      family enjoys, or indulged in the hope that my parents may one day attain to sovereign
      rank,—that joy, that pride, that hope are all experienced on account of   you  ! For,
      like you, I care not for the grandeur and ostentation of palaces;—but it will be a thrice
      happy day for me, when I can say to thee—'  Richard, my fortune is all thine, and thou shalt
       share my rank!  ' Because, in Castelcicala, unlike the usages of your native land, he who
      espouses a Princess becomes a Prince; and, when you shall be thus exalted, Richard, who will
      dare to remind you of the misfortunes of your past life? That is why I rejoice in my present
      rank and future prospects,—a joy that is experienced solely on account of you!"  
  "Noble-hearted girl! what kindness—what attention—what devoted love on my part can ever
      repay thee for these generous feelings—these endearing proofs of the tenderest
      attachment!"  
  "Do you think that I should love you, Richard, as I do," returned Isabella, "if I did not
      know the generosity of your soul—if I did not appreciate all your virtues? I am well aware
      that, unfortunately, you are not rich; and yet you sacrificed—nobly sacrificed your property
      to release my parent from a gaol! Oh! how can I ever forget that conduct of yours? You speak
      of repaying   me   for my affection: how much do I not owe to   you  ?"  
  There was a pause in the conversation, during which the lovers walked up and down along the
      edge of the leafless grove, each enjoying reflections of a pleasurable nature. Isabella leant
      with charming confidence upon the arm of that handsome and generous-hearted young man, in
      whose love she gloried as if   he   were the Prince and   she   were the obscure
      individual; and he felt his heart expand with ineffable bliss, as he contemplated the
      brilliant prospects which that lovely girl—the proudly-born Princess spread before the eyes of
      him—the obscure individual.  
  More than an hour and a half had already passed, and Isabella at length remembered that she
      must return home.  
  She intimated to her lover the necessity of separating; and, with fond embraces and renewed
      vows, they parted.  
  Richard watched her receding form until she entered the grove of evergreens surrounding her
      father's mansion: he then retraced his steps towards Richmond.  
  And never was his heart so light as now!  
  
  CHAPTER CXIV. THE CONTENTS OF THE PACKET.  
  ALBERTO of Castelcicala, to conceal his princely rank, when he arrived in England an exile
      from his native shores, had adopted the style of Count Alteroni—this title being the name of
      an estate which he had possessed in Italy, but which, together with the remainder of his vast
      property, had been confiscated by order of the Grand Duke, his uncle. The government of
      Castelcicala was an absolute despotism; and it was because the Prince, with a view to
      ameliorate the condition of the people whom he might one day be called upon to govern, had
      placed himself at the head, and openly avowed himself as the patron, of a political party in
      the state, whose object was to obtain a constitution, he had been proscribed by the Grand Duke
      and the old aristocracy of the country.  
  His party advised him to have recourse to arms; and meetings in favour of the enlightened
      principles which he advocated were held at the time throughout the country. But the Prince was
      resolved never to plunge his native land into the horrors of a civil war: he preferred exile
      and obscurity to such an alternative. His was, indeed, a lofty and patriotic soul, that knew
      how to sacrifice his dearest interests to the popular tranquillity.  
  Accordingly, on his arrival in London he had adopted a rank comparatively humble in respect
      to the exalted station which he in reality occupied; and to this mode of conduct he was
      instigated by the same disinterested motives that had led him to fly from his country rather
      than raise the standard of civil strife. He knew that if he settled in London under his proper
      title, he could not avoid receiving those patriotic exiles who had fled from Castelcicala to
      avoid the consequences of their liberal opinions. He was averse to the idea of allowing his
      dwelling to be made the point of   réunion   for those who advocated the enforcement of
      the popular cause by means of arms; he would not for a moment consent to permit a nucleus of
      open rebellion against the reigning sovereign of Castelcicala, to be formed under his
      auspices. He had, therefore, intimated to his friends and adherents that he intended to retire
      into private life, until circumstances might place him in a position to confer upon his native
      land the charter of liberties which he believed to be its natural right.  
  The few English persons who were acquainted with his secret, religiously kept it. The
      Tremordyns, Armstrong, and the Earl of Warrington, whom he numbered amongst his best friends,
      respected the   incognito   to bend his head with such profound respect in the presence of the heir
      presumptive to a throne.  
  Nor need it now be made a matter of marvel if those letters of introduction proved such
      immediate passports for Eliza Sydney into the first society of Castelcicala;—but little did he
      who gave them or he who solicited them,—little did they think that their ulterior effect would
      be to open the way for that lady to such an eminence as the one which she had attained.  
  We have before explained,—a point, indeed, which the intelligent reader could not fail to
      comprehend,—that the chance of Alberto to the Castelcicalan throne now depended upon the
      contingency of the marriage of Angelo III. producing offspring, or not. Scarcely, however, had
      that marriage been consummated, when the Minister of Foreign. Affairs wrote to the
      Castelcicalan envoy at the court of Queen Victoria, to communicate to Prince Alberto the
      intention of the government, sanctioned by the Grand Duke, to allow him a handsome income, and
      supply him with an immediate grant, by way of indemnification for the loss of his estates. No
      political condition of any kind being attached to this concession, the Prince did not hesitate
      to accept it; and it was even mentioned in a Montoni newspaper, that the influence of the
      Grand Duchess, aided by the friendly feeling of some of the new Ministers towards the Prince,
      had procured this act of justice at the hands of Angelo III.  
  These few observations may not be deemed superfluous, inasmuch as they tend to explain the
      real position of the Prince of Castelcicala—the father of our charming heroine.  
  We said it was with a light heart that Richard Markham retraced his steps to Richmond, after
      having parted with the Princess Isabella.  
  He was, moreover, desirous to examine the contents of the packet which she had placed in his
      hands,—not because he cared for the money which was thus returned to him; but because he was
      anxious to ascertain whether any note from her father accompanied it.  
  He, however, restrained his curiosity until he reached Richmond, where he entered an hotel,
      ordered a private room, bespoke some refreshment, and then proceeded to break the seal of the
      envelope.  
  Yes—there   was   a letter, containing a cheque.  
  The cheque fell unheeded on the carpet: the letter was immediately perused with
      avidity;—  
  
  "I cannot sufficiently express my admiration of your noble and generous conduct in having
       liquidated the debts for which I was detained in the Queen's Bench prison. I now repay, with
       unfeigned and heart-felt gratitude, that sum which you advanced, for my necessities, in a
       manner so honourable to your own nature and so eminently useful to me at that period. I need
       not say how deeply I regret the injurious suspicions which I entertained concerning you on a
       certain occasion: but circumstances were too powerfully combined against you to admit of any
       other impression. You will forgive me—for I ask your pardon: I sincerely apologise for all I
       may have said or done on that occasion.  
  "And now, my dear Mr. Markham, I am compelled to touch upon a subject which, though
       painful, demands a few observations. That you have been unfortunate, I know: that you were
       never guilty, I am now well convinced. I have read a document which proves this. But you have
       inspired my daughter with an affection, which I understand is reciprocal, and which never can
       end otherwise than in disappointment to you both. Crush, then, this sentiment in your breast;
       and for the peace of mind of   her   who is my only child, and who never—never can
       become your wife, I implore you not to see her more! Avoid her—as I shall instruct her to
       avoid you,—my only motive being based upon certain circumstances, unknown to you, which
       render your union an impossibility. I address you as a friend—as a father I write to you;
       your generous heart will teach you how to respect my wishes.  
  "One more subject must not be forgotten. I am well aware that you are not as wealthy as you
       once were. Thank God, my pecuniary means have ceased to be a subject of anxiety to me. You
       aided me when I was in need and in distress: allow me to offer you a trifling assistance
       towards enabling you to build up your fortunes. This is an object, which, with your great
       talents, you cannot fail to accomplish. Remember, I do not offer this small aid as an
       acquittal of my deep obligation towards you: no—my gratitude is intense—and the circumstances
       under which you befriended me leave me ever your debtor. But as a friend, I offer you the use
       of my purse;—as a friend I place in your hands a sum of money which you can use during your
       pleasure, and return to me at your convenience. Should that sum be insufficient to forward
       your views, hesitate not to apply to me for more.  
  "And now, farewell—at least for the present; and believe that no one will be more delighted
       to hear of your success in life, than "Your very sincere friend,  
    "ALTERONI."    
  
  Markham picked up the cheque: it was for five thousand pounds.  
  We must endeavour to explain the nature of the feelings which the contents of the Prince's
      letter created within him.  
  He saw with delight that the illustrious exile once more addressed him as a friend, and that
      all suspicions of his guilt had been extirpated from the mind of that nobleman. But, on the
      other hand, the barrier between himself and Isabella seemed to be rendered insuperable by the
      positive terms in which the Prince bade him eradicate his passion from his bosom. That barrier
      was no doubt twofold: the father of Isabella never could consent to the union of his daughter
      with one whom the world had stamped with ignominy, although innocent:—and, chiefly, the
      Italian Prince—the probable heir to a throne—might aspire to a far, far higher connexion for
      his child. Then Richard's thoughts were directed to the handsome sum of money which the Prince
      had placed at his disposal; and he could not do otherwise than admire the delicate manner in
      which it was proffered,—a manner that scarcely admitted of a refusal. And yet Richard was
      resolved to return the surplus above the amount which he had disbursed to procure the Prince's
      liberation from prison.  
  Thus was it with mingled feelings of joy and melancholy that Markham reviewed the contents
      of that letter.  
  Still he clung to Hope,—for Isabella had bade him hope; and he thought that the same good
      Providence which had thus far reconciled him to the father of his beloved, might in time
      accomplish more striking miracles in his favour.  
  But, alas! it must indeed be a miracle that could link his fate with the high destinies of
      the ducal house of Castelcicala!  
  Isabella, instead of being the daughter of an obscure count, was the only child of one who,
      if he were not to become himself the sovereign of the most powerful petty state in Europe,
      would at all events occupy a station next only to the sovereign whenever circumstances should
      allow him to return to his native land.  
  But, on the other hand, Isabella was faithful and true; and what might not be expected from
      woman's love?  
  In a word, Markham was rather inclined to hope than to despair; and the incidents of that
      morning imparted to his soul a solace which was a recompense for much, very much of past
      suffering.  
   returned to London, and repaired to the bank where the cheque was made
      payable.  
  He only drew for the amount actually due to him, and desired that the surplus might be
      retained in behalf of Count Alteroni (under which name the Prince was known at the bankers'
      establishment).  
  On his return home, Richard addressed the following letter to the Italian nobleman:—  
  
  "A thousand thanks, my dear lord, for your most kind and courteous letter. To find that you
       have at length become convinced that I was unfortunate, and   never   guilty, is a
       source of happiness the extent of which I cannot describe.  
  "Your wishes in respect to the attachment which I certainly entertain for the Signora
       Isabella, shall be so far complied with—that I will not venture to present myself at your
       abode. As for extinguishing that affection which burns in my heart—mortal power cannot
       accomplish the task.  
  "It was with unfeigned delight that I understood from your lordship's letter that your
       position not only enabled you to return the trifle which I once ventured to use in your
       behalf, but also most generously to offer me the means of building up my fallen fortunes. My
       lord, I am unable to profit by your kindness; the stigma under which I lie—and with tears I
       write these words—is a bar to any legitimate speculation with a hope of success. Moreover, I
       have sufficient for my wants; and am therefore, in one sense, rich. Excuse me if I have not
       availed myself of your noble offer—an offer that scarcely admits of refusal in consequence of
       the delicacy and kindness with which it was made. Nevertheless, I am bound to decline it—with
       the most sincere gratitude; at the same time observing, that should need ever press me, I
       shall not hesitate to have recourse to the friendship with which you honour me.  
  "In the earnest hope that happiness and health may attend upon yourself and amiable
       family,  
  "I remain, my dear lord,  
   "Your most grateful and faithful servant,  
   "RICHARD MARKHAM."  
  
  It will be seen that the tone of this letter was somewhat constrained; but, although Richard
      endeavoured to write with apparent ease, as if ignorant of his correspondent's real rank, he
      could not forget that he was addressing himself to the Prince of Castelcicala.  
  
  CHAPTER CXV. THE TREASURE.—A NEW IDEA.  
  ALAS! that we should be compelled to turn from such bright scenes as woman's love and
      lovers' hope, to deeds of infamy and crime.  
  But so goes the world; and no faithful historian can venture to deviate from the rule.  
  Sad, and dismal, and dark, are many of the phases which this narrative has yet to show; but
      we can also promise our reader that there will not be wanting bright and cheering scenes to
      afford relief to his eye.  
  Chequered, indeed, are the ways of life: varied and diversified are all its paths.  
  And, oh! let him who is wearied with the load of existence, while wending through the rough
      and craggy places of the world, and when rudely jostled by the world's unfeeling crowd,—let
      him remember that there is another sphere beyond, where the ways are smooth and pleasant, and
      where the voice of lamentation is never heard,—a sphere where angels alone shall be the guides
      of the elect, and where the sound of grateful harmony shall never cease,—a sphere, whose name
      is   Heaven  !  
  Again we say, alas! that we should be compelled to divert the attention of our reader from
      scenes of mundane bliss and the contemplation of the purest love, to deeds of iniquity and
      hatred.  
  But to our task.  
  It was about five o'clock in the evening of the day that witnessed the incidents of the two
      preceding chapters, and that had succeeded the night on which the unhappy Viola had signed a
      deed surrendering up half her property to her unprincipled husband,—that the Resurrection Man
      returned home to his dwelling in Globe Town.  
  But before he ascended to the apartments inhabited by himself and his mistress with a
      fearful name, he entered the lower part of the building, and, having lighted a candle,
      descended to the subterranean vaults.  
  In the first place he went into a cell opposite to that which was still tenanted by Viola,
      who, it will be remembered, had received a solemn promise to be restored to her own abode that
      evening at nine o'clock.  
  The Resurrection Man entered the cell to which we have alluded, and which was empty.  
  He raised a stone from the floor, and drew from a hole of about a foot deep, a large
      leathern bag, the contents of which sent forth the welcome metallic sound of gold as he took
      it in his hand.  
  The miscreant seated himself upon the cold floor of the cell, and poured forth into his hat
      the glittering contents of the bag. His eyes sparkled with delight as he surveyed the
      treasure.  
  He took a few of the coins up in his hand, and let them drop one by one back again into his
      hat—his glances greedily fixed upon the gold as he thus toyed with it.  
  "Two hundred good sterling sovereigns here already," he mused within himself,—"two hundred
      pounds earned with toil, trouble, daring, and danger. Two hundred pounds are a decent
      provision for any man in my line of life! And now," he continued, taking a smaller canvass bag
      from his pocket, "there is more to add to swell the treasury. Here is a hundred pounds—my half
      of the sum paid by Tomlinson this afternoon for keeping the secret about his old clerk. The
      Buffer has got his share; but I warrant he will hoard none of it as I do! Thank my stars,
      within the last year I have learnt to be economical and saving. I mean to have something for
      my old age; unless——"  
  And his countenance suddenly assumed an expression perfectly hideous, as he reflected upon
      the probability of his career being cut short by the hand of the law.  
  But, in another moment, he grew composed—that is to say, desperately hardened; and he then
      proceeded with his occupation and his musings.  
  "Well, here is my share of the two hundred pounds that the chicken-hearted, contemptible,
      cowardly Tomlinson paid for a secret which a little calm reflection might have told him that I
      dared not reveal. That's a hundred pounds to add to my sinking fund;"—and here the miscreant
      smiled. "Now," he continued, "comes the grand swag—three hundred pounds from Chichester,—and
      not too much for the trouble I have had in   his   affair! Two hundred before—Tomlinson's
      hundred—and Chichester's three hundred,—that makes six hundred pounds of good sterling gold,
      the property of Mr. Anthony Tidkins!"  
  And here the Resurrection Man laughed outright:—it was a horrible chuckle—the triumph of a
      miscreant of a most atrocious nature.  
  —happy in counting and contemplating the produce of his turpitude.  
  While he was consigning his wealth to the larger bag, and gloating over the gold as he
      passed it through his hand, he was suddenly alarmed by a slight sound in the passage.  
  It seemed like a low footstep.  
  He listened, but it was not repeated.  
  For nearly a minute did he remain motionless, and almost breathless, in a state of painful
      attention; but not another sound met his ear.  
  Then, recovering from the state of uneasy suspense into which that incident had thrown him,
      he rose from the floor, and hurried into the passage which divided the two rows of cells.  
  All was quiet.  
  Ashamed of himself for his childish alarm, and muttering a curse at his folly for having
      given way to that fear, he returned into the cell, buried his treasure and covered the place
      with the stone. He then carefully locked the door of the dungeon.  
  He crossed the passage, and proceeded gently to open the door leading into the cell occupied
      by Viola. When he entered this vault, he found the lamp extinguished; but by the glare of his
      candle, he perceived the unhappy woman stretched in a profound slumber upon the bed.  
  "All right," he muttered to himself,—"and just as I expected. She will sleep some hours yet,
      for the wine was well drugged; and thus we can convey her back again to her house in a state
      of insensibility. When she awakes in her own bed, her servants will assure her that all she
      has passed through was a mere dream; and by this plan she will be so bewildered, that she will
      actually fancy she has been delirious, and that her brain has wandered. This was Chichester's
      suggestion; and I must give him credit for it. True—she will sooner or later discover that the
      departure of half her property is no dream; but then the first burst of passion will have gone
      by, and she will consider it prudent to hold her tongue. Well—let her sleep: at nine o'clock
      Chichester and Tomlinson will come, and then she shall be removed."  
  At that instant an idea struck the Resurrection Man. Hitherto he had worked as Chichester's
      agent, and by Chichester's directions, in this affair: what if he were to turn the business to
      some good account for himself? The lady had only parted with half her property: she had eight
      thousand pounds left. Might not all, or a decent portion of this sum thus remaining, pass into
      the hands of the Resurrection Man? His   mode of treatment   had elicited the first
      concession: some additional horrors might extort a further grant. The idea was excellent: fool
      that he was for not having thought of it before!  
  Thus reasoned Anthony Tidkins.  
  The more he thought of the new plot which had just entered his head, the more he grew
      enamoured of it. He was well aware that neither Chichester nor Tomlinson would dare to adopt
      measures to resist his will; and with a grin of savage delight, he exclaimed aloud, "By God,
      it shall be done!"  
  He then removed the bottle of wine from the cell, so that when Viola awoke she might not
      repeat her dose—supposing that she should be ignorant of the cause of her long lethargic
      slumber; for the Resurrection Man was not aware of the sudden effect which it had produced
      upon her, but imagined that the drugged liquid was only powerful enough to operate gradually.
      He next replenished the lamp with oil from a bottle which stood in one corner of the cell,
      and, having lighted the lamp, withdrew, carefully bolting and locking the door behind him.  
  He ascended from the subterranean prison, replaced the stone trap-door, and issued from the
      ground-floor of the house. He observed that the door leading into the alley was locked as he
      had left it when he entered; and this circumstance reassured him relative to the little
      incident which had temporarily disturbed him when counting his money in the cell.  
  Many circumstances combined to put the Resurrection Man into an excellent humour.  
  He had that day added four hundred pounds to his hidden treasure; he saw business of all
      kinds multiplying upon his hands, and promising a golden harvest; and he had hit upon a scheme
      which, he had no doubt, would produce him a larger sum than he had ever yet realised even in
      his dreams.  
  It was therefore with a smiling countenance that he entered the up-stairs room where the
      Rattlesnake was busily employed in spreading the contents of her cupboard upon the table.  
  "Well, Meg, you see I am home before my time," he exclaimed. "I don't want any dinner: I
      took some at a chop-house in town, as I had to wait on business. But leave the lush: I am in a
      humour for a glass of grog;—and you and I, Meg, will sit down and have a cozy chat
      together."  
  "So we will, Tony," returned the woman, with a manner even more wheedling and fawning than
      she had ever before used towards her terrible paramour. "You seem in excellent spirits,
      Tony."  
  "Yes, Meg—excellent: I have done a good day's work—and now I will enjoy myself till nine
      o'clock, when I have got to meet two gentlemen close by here on another little matter."  
  "Ah! you seldom tell me what you are doing, Tony," said the Rattlesnake.  
  "No—no: I don't like trusting women a bit farther than I can see them. Such things as
      getting up a body or so—well and good; but serious things, Meg—serious things, never!"  
  "Well, just as you like," returned Margaret Flathers, affecting a smile as if she were quite
      satisfied; but as she turned to replace the meat in the cupboard, her countenance
      involuntarily assumed an expression of mysterious triumph.  
  "Come, now—sit down," said the Resurrection Man: "give me a pipe, and brew me my lush.
      There—that's a good girl."  
  Tidkins lighted his pipe, and smoked for some moments in silence.  
  "I tell you what, Meg," he exclaimed, after a pause; "you shall sing me a song. I feel in
      such an uncommon good humour this evening—in such excellent spirits. No—I won't have a song: I
      tell you what you shall do."  
  "What?" said Margaret, as she mixed two glasses of gin and water.  
  "You shall tell me all about the coal-mines, you know—your own history. You told it me once
      before; but then I wasn't in a humour to hear you. I missed half, and have forgot t' other
      half. So now, come—let's have the Life and Adventures of Miss Margaret Flathers."  
  The Resurrection Man laughed at this joke—as he considered and meant it to be; and the
      Rattlesnake, who never dared to thwart him in any thing, and who apparently had some
      additional motive to humour him on this occasion, hastened to comply with his request—or
      rather command.  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  
  CHAPTER CXVI. THE RATTLESNAKE'S HISTORY.   
    target="#ENG18460_N082"/ "I was born in a coal-mine in Staffordshire. My father was a
      married man, with five or six children by his wife: my mother was a single woman, who worked
      for him in the pit. I was, therefore, illegitimate; but this circumstance was neither
      considered disgraceful to my mother nor to myself, morality being on so low a scale amongst
      the mining population generally, as almost to amount to promiscuous intercourse. My mother was
      only eighteen when I was born. She worked in the pit up to the very hour of my birth; and when
      she found the labour-pains coming on, she threw off the belt and chain with which she had been
      dragging a heavy corf (or wicker basket), full of coal, up a slanting road,—retired to a damp
      cave in a narrow passage leading to the foot of the shaft, and there gave birth to her child.
      That child was myself. She wrapped me up in her petticoat, which was all the clothing she had
      on at the time, and crawled with me, along the passage, which was about two feet and a half
      high, to the bottom of the shaft. There she got into the basket, and was drawn up a height of
      about two hundred and thirty feet—holding the rope with her right hand, and supporting me on
      her left arm. She often told me those particulars, and said how she thought she should faint
      as she was ascending in the rickety vehicle, and how difficult she found it to maintain her
      hold of the rope, weak and enfeebled as she was. She, however, reached the top in safety, and
      hastened home to her miserable hovel—for she was an orphan, and lived by herself. In a week
      she was up again, and back to her work in the pit; and she hired a bit of a girl, about seven
      or eight years old, to take care of me.  
   with my birth. My mother would, perhaps, come up from the pit once, in the
      middle of the day, to give me my natural nourishment; and when I screamed during her absence,
      the little girl, who acted as my nurse, most probably thrust a teaspoonful of some strong
      opiate down my throat to make me sleep and keep me quiet. Many children are killed by this
      treatment; but the reason of death, in such cases, is seldom known, because the Coroner's
      assistance is seldom required in the mining districts.  
  "When I was seven years old, my mother one day told me that it was now high time for me to
      go down with her into the pit, and earn some money by my own labour. My father, who now and
      then called to see me of a Sunday, and brought me a cake or a toy, also declared that I was
      old enough to help my mother. So it was decided that I should go down into the pit. I remember
      that I was very much frightened at the idea, and cried very bitterly when the dreaded day
      came. It was a cold winter's morning—I recollect that well; and the snow was very thick upon
      the ground. I shivered with chilliness and terror as my mother led me to the pit. She gave me
      a good scolding because I whimpered; and then a good beating because I cried lustily. But
      every thing combined to make me afraid. It was as early as five in that cold wintry morning
      that I was proceeding to a scene of labour which I knew to be far, far under the earth. The
      dense darkness of the hour was not even relieved by the white snow upon the ground; but over
      the country were seen blazing fires on every side,—fires which appeared to me to be issuing
      from the very bowels of the earth, but which were in reality burning upon the surface, for the
      purpose of converting coal into coke: there were also blazing fields of bituminous shale; and
      all the tall chimneys of the great towers of the iron furnaces vomited forth flames,—the whole
      scene thus forming a picture well calculated to appal and startle an infant mind.  
  "I remember at this moment what my feelings were then—as well as if the incident I am
      relating had only occurred yesterday. During the day-light I had seen the lofty chimneys
      giving vent to columns of dense smoke, the furnaces putting forth torrents of lurid flame, and
      the coke-fires burning upon the ground: but that was the first time I had ever beheld those
      meteors blazing amidst utter darkness; and I was afraid—I was afraid.  
  "The shaft was perfectly round, and not more than four feet in diameter. The mode of ascent
      and descent was precisely that of a well, with this difference—that, instead of a bucket there
      was a stout iron bar about three feet long attached in the middle, and suspended horizontally,
      to the end of the rope. From each end of this bar hung chains with hooks, to draw up the
      baskets of coal. This apparatus was called the   clatch-harness  . Two people ascended or
      descended at a time by these means. They had to sit cross-legged, as it were, upon the
      transverse bar, and cling to the rope. Thus, the person who got on first sate upon the bar,
      and the other person sate a-straddle on the first one's thighs. An old woman presided at the
      wheel which wound up or lowered the rope sustaining the clatch-harness; and as she was by no
      means averse to a dram, the lives of the persons employed in the mine were constantly at the
      mercy of that old drunken harridan. Moreover, there seemed to me to be great danger in the way
      in which the miners got on and off the clatch-harness. One moment's giddiness—a missing of the
      hold of the rope—and down to the bottom of the shaft headlong! When the clatch-harness was
      drawn up to the top, the old woman made the handle fast by a bolt drawn out from the upright
      post, and then, grasping a hand of both persons on the harness at the same time, brought them
      by main force to land. A false step on the part of that old woman,—the failure of the bolt
      which stopped the rotatory motion of the roller on which the rope was wound,—or the slipping
      of the hands which she grasped in hers,—and a terrible accident must have ensued!  
  "But to return to my first descent into the pit. My mother, who was dressed in a loose
      jacket, open in front, and trousers (which, besides her shoes, were the only articles of
      clothing on her, she wearing neither shift nor stockings), leapt upon the clatch-iron as
      nimbly as a sailor in the rigging of his ship. She then received me from the outstretched arm
      of the old woman, and made me sit in the easiest and safest posture she could imagine. But
      when I found myself being gradually lowered down into a depth as black as night, I felt too
      terror-struck even to cry out; and had not my mother held me tight with one hand, I should
      have fallen precipitately into that hideous dark profundity.  
  "At length we reached the bottom, where my mother lifted me, half dead with giddiness and
      fright, from the clatch-iron. I felt the soil cold, damp, and muddy, under my feet. A lamp was
      burning in a shade suspended in a little recess in the side of the shaft; and my mother
      lighted a bit of candle which she had brought with her, and which she stuck into a piece of
      clay to hold it by. Then I perceived a long dark passage, about two feet and a half high,
      branching off from the foot of the shaft. My mother went on her hands and knees, and told me
      to creep along with her. The passage was nearly six feet wide; and thus there was plenty of
      room for me to keep abreast of her. Had not this been the case, I am sure that I never should
      have had the courage either to precede, or follow her; for nothing could be more hideous to my
      infantine imagination than that low, yawning, black-mouthed cavern, running into the very
      bowels of the earth, and leading I knew not whither. Indeed, as I walked in a painfully
      stooping posture along by my mother's side, my fancy conjured up all kinds of horrors. I
      trembled lest some invisible hand should suddenly push forth from the side of the passage, and
      clutch me in its grasp: I dreaded lest every step I took might precipitate me into some
      tremendous abyss or deep well: I thought that the echoes which I heard afar off, and which
      were the sounds of the miner's pickaxe or the rolling corves on the rails, were terrific
      warnings that the earth was falling in, and would bury us alive: then, when the light of my
      mother's candle suddenly fell upon some human being groping his or her way along in darkness,
      I shuddered at the idea of encountering some ferocious monster or hideous spectre:—in a word,
      my feelings, as I toiled along that subterranean passage, were of so terrific a nature that
      they produced upon my memory an impression which never can be effaced, and which makes me turn
      cold all over as I contemplate those feelings now!  
  "You must remember that I had been reared in a complete state of mental darkness; and that
      no enlightened instruction had dispelled the clouds of superstition which naturally obscure
      the juvenile mind. I could not read: I had not even been taught my alphabet. I had not heard
      of such a name as   Jesus Christ  ; and all the mention of   God   and execrations which fell from the lips of my father, my mother, her
      acquaintances, and even the little girl who had nursed me. You cannot wonder, then, if I was
      so appalled, when I first found myself in that strange and terrific place.  
  "At length we reached the end of that passage, and struck into another, which echoed with
      the noise of pickaxes. In a few moments I saw the   undergoers   (or miners) lying on
      their sides, and with their pickaxes breaking away the coal. They did not work to a greater
      height than two feet, for fear, as I subsequently learnt, that they should endanger the
      security of the roof of the passage, the seam of coal not being a thick one. I well remember
      my infantine alarm and horror when I perceived that these men were naked—stark naked. But my
      mother did not seem to be the least abashed or dismayed: on the contrary, she laughed and
      exchanged a joke with each one as we passed. In fact, I afterwards discovered that Bet
      Flathers was a great favourite with the miners.  
  "Well, we went on, until we suddenly came upon a scene that astonished me not a little. The
      passage abruptly opened into a large room,—an immense cave, hollowed out of the coal in a seam
      that I since learnt to be twenty feet in thickness. This cave was lighted by a great number of
      candles; and at a table sate about twenty individuals—men, women, and children—all at
      breakfast. There they were, as black as negroes—eating, laughing, chattering, and drinking.
      But, to my surprise and disgust, I saw that the women and young girls were all naked from the
      waist upwards, and many of the men completely so. And yet there was no shame—no embarrassment!
      But the language that soon met my ears!—I could not comprehend half of it, but what I
         did   understand, made me afraid!  
  "My mother caught me by the hand, and led me to the table, where I found my father. He gave
      us some breakfast; and in a short time, the party broke up—the men, women, and children
      separating to their respective places of labour. My mother and myself accompanied one of the
      men, for my mother had ceased to work for my father, since she had borne a child to him, as
      his wife had insisted upon their separation in respect to labour in the mine.  
  "The name of the man for whom my mother worked was Phil Blossom. He was married, but had no
      children. His wife was a cripple, having met with some accident in the mine, and could not
      work. He was therefore obliged to employ some one to carry his coal from the place where he
      worked, to the cart that conveyed it to the foot of the shaft. Until I went down into the
      mine, my mother had carried the coal for him, and also   hurried   (or dragged) the cart;
      but she now made me fill one cart while she hurried another. Thus, at seven years old, I had
      to carry about fifty-six pounds of coal in a wooden   bucket  . When the passage was high
      enough I carried it on my back; but when it was too low, I had to drag or push it along as
      best I could. Some parts of the passages were only twenty-two inches in height; this was where
      the workings were in very narrow seams; and the difficulty of dragging such a weight, at such
      an age, can be better understood than explained. I can well recollect that when I commenced
      that terrible labour, the perspiration, commingling with my tears, poured down my face.  
  "Phil Blossom worked in a complete state of nudity; and my mother stripped herself to the
      waist to perform her task. She had to drag a cart holding seven hundred weight, a distance of
      at least two hundred yards—for ours was a very extensive pit, and had numerous workings and
      cuttings running a considerable way underground. The person who does this duty is called a
         hurrier  : the process itself is termed   tramming  ; and the cart is denominated
      a   skip  . The work was certainly harder than that of slaves in the West Indies, or
      convicts in Norfolk Island. My mother had a girdle round her waist; and to that girdle was
      fastened a chain, which passed between her legs and was attached to the skip. She then had to
      go down on her hands and knees, with a candle fastened to a strap on her forehead, and drag
      the skip through the low passages, or else to maintain a carved or stooping posture in the
      high ones.  
  "Phil Blossom was what was called a   getter  . He first made a long straight cut with
      a pickaxe underneath the part of the seam where he was working: this was called
         holing  : and as it was commenced low down, the getter was obliged to lie flat on his
      back or on his side, and work for a long time in that uneasy manner.  
  "I did as well as I could with the labour allotted to me; but it was dreadful work. I was
      constantly knocking my head against the low roofs of the passages or against the rough places
      of the sides: at other times I fell flat on my face, with the masses of coal upon me; or else
      I got knocked down by a cart, or by some collier in the dark, as I toiled along the passages,
      my eyes blinded with my tears or with the dust of the mine.  
  "Many—many weeks passed away; and at length I grew quite hardened in respect to those sights
      and that language which had at first disgusted me. I became familiar with the constant
      presence of naked men and half-naked women; and the most terrible oaths and filthy expressions
      ceased to startle me. I walked boldly into the great cavern which I have before described, and
      which served as a place of meeting for those who took their meals in the mine. I associated
      with the boys and girls that worked in the pit, and learnt to laugh at an obscene joke, or to
      practise petty thefts of candles, food, or even drink, which the colliers left in the cavern
      or at their places of work. The mere fact of the boys and girls in mines all meeting together,
      without any control,—without any one to look after them,—is calculated to corrupt all those
      who may be well disposed.  
  "I remained as a carrier of coal along the passages till I was ten years old. I was then
      ordered to convey my load, which by this time amounted to a hundred weight on each occasion,
      up a ladder to a passage over where I had hitherto worked. This load was strapped by a leather
      round my forehead; and, as the ladder was very rudely formed, and the steps were nearly two
      feet apart, it was with great difficulty that I could keep my balance. I have seen terrible
      accidents happen to young girls working in that way. Sometimes the strap, or tagg, round one
      person's forehead has broken, and the whole load has fallen on the girl climbing up behind.
      Then the latter has been precipitated to the bottom of the dyke, the great masses of coal
      falling on the top of her. On other occasions I have seen the girls lose their balance, and
      fall off the ladder—their burden of coals, as in the other case, showering upon them or their
      companions behind. The work was indeed most horrible: a slave-ship could not have been
      worse.  
   serve her in the same manner. He thrashed me with his fist or with a stick,
      until I was bruised all over. My flesh was often marked with deep wales for weeks together.
      One day he nipped me with his nails until he actually cut quite through my ear. He often
      pulled my hair till it literally gave way in his hand; and sometimes he would pelt me with
      coals. He thought nothing of giving me a kick that would send me with great violence across
      the passage, or dash me against the opposite side. On one occasion he was in such a rage,
      because I accidentally put out the candle which he had to light him at his work, that he
      struck a random blow at me with his pickaxe in the dark, and cut a great gash in my head. All
      the miners in pits   baste   and   bray  —that is, beat and flog—their helpers.  
  "You would be surprised if I was to tell you how many people in the pit were either killed
      or severely injured, by accidents, every year. But there are so many dangers to which the poor
      miners are exposed! Falling down the shaft,—the rope sustaining the clatch-harness
      breaking,—being drawn over the roller,—the fall of coals out of the corves in their
      ascent,—drowning in the mines from the sudden breaking in of water from old
      workings,—explosion of gas,—choke-damp,  target="#ENG18460_N083" [83]  —falling in of
      the roofs of passages,—the breaking of ladders or well-staircases,—being run over by the
      tram-waggons, or carts dragged by horses,—the explosion of gunpowder used in breaking away
      huge masses of coal,—and several other minor accidents, are all perpetually menacing the life
      or limbs of those poor creatures who supply the mineral that cheers so many thousands of
      fire-sides!  
  "Deaths from accidents of this nature were seldom, if ever, brought under the notice of the
      coroner: indeed, to save time, it was usual to bury the poor victims within twenty-four or
      thirty-six hours after their decease.  
  "I earned three shillings a-week when I was ten years old, and my mother eleven. You may
      imagine, then, that we ought to have been pretty comfortable; but our household was just as
      wretched as any other in the mining districts. Filth and poverty are the characteristics of
      the collier population. Nothing can be more wretched—nothing more miserable than their
      dwellings. The huts in which they live are generally from ten to twelve feet square, each
      consisting only of one room. I have seen a man and his wife and eight or ten children all
      huddling together in that one room; and yet they might have earned, by their joint labour,
      thirty-shillings or more a week. Perhaps a pig, a jackass, or fowls form part of the family.
      And then the furniture!—not a comfort—scarcely a necessary! And yet this absence of even such
      articles as bedsteads, is upon principle: the colliers do not like to be encumbered with
      household goods, because they are often obliged to   flit  —that is, to leave one place
      of work and seek for another. Such a thing as drainage is almost completely unknown in these
      districts; and all the filth is permitted to accumulate before the door. The colliers are a
      dirty set of people; but, poor creatures! how can they well be otherwise? They descend into
      the mines at a very early hour in the morning: they return home at a very late hour in the
      evening, and they are then too tired to attend to habits of cleanliness. Besides, it is so
      natural for them to say, '  Why should we wash ourselves to-night, since to-morrow we must
       become black and dirty again?  ' or '  Why should we wash ourselves for the sake of
       sleeping with a clean skin?  ' As for the boys and girls, they are often so worn out—so
      thoroughly exhausted, that they go to rest without their suppers. They cannot keep themselves
      awake when they get home. I know that this was often and often my case; and I have
      preferred—indeed, I have been compelled by sheer fatigue, to go to bed before my mother could
      prepare any thing to eat.  
  "Again, how can the collier's home possibly be comfortable? He makes his wife and children
      toil with him in the mine: he married a woman from the mine; and neither she nor her daughters
      know any thing of housekeeping? How can disorder be prevented from creeping into the collier's
      dwelling, when no one is there in the day-time to attend to it? Then all the money which they
      can save from the   Tommy-shop  , (of which I shall speak presently) goes for whiskey.
      Husband and wife, sons and daughters all look after the whiskey. The habits of the colliers
      are hereditarily depraved: they are perpetuated from father to son, from mother to daughter;
      none is better nor worse than his parents were before him. Rags and filth—squalor and
      dissipation—crushing toil and hideous want—ignorance and immorality; these are the features of
      the collier's home, and the characteristics of the collier's life.  
  "Our home was not a whit better than that of any of our fellow-labourers; nor was my mother
      less attached to whiskey than her neighbours.  
  "But the chief source of poverty and frequent want—amounting at times almost to
      starvation—amongst persons earning a sufficiency of wages, is the   truck system  . This
      atrociously oppressive method consists of paying the colliers' wages in goods, or partly in
      goods, through the medium of the tommy-shop. The proprietor of a tommy-shop has an
      understanding with the owners of the mines in his district; and the owners agree to pay the
      persons in their employment once a month, or once a fortnight. The consequence is that the
      miners require credit during the interval; and they are compelled to go to the tommy-shop,
      where they can obtain their bread, bacon, cheese, meat, groceries, potatoes, chandlery, and
      even clothes. The proprietor of the tommy-shop sends his book to the clerk of the owner of the
      mine the day before the wages are paid; and thus the clerk knows how much to stop from the
      wages of each individual, for the benefit of the shopkeeper. If the miners and their wives do
      not go to the tommy-shop for their domestic articles, they instantly lose their employment in
      the mine, in consequence of the understanding between their employer and the shopkeeper.
      Perhaps this would not be so bad if the tommy-shops were honest; because it is very handy for
      the collier to go to a store which contains every article that he may require. But the
      tommy-shop charges twenty-five or thirty per cent. dearer than any other tradesman; so that if
      a collier and his family can earn between them thirty shillings a week, he loses seven or
      eight shillings out of that amount. In the course of a year about twenty pounds out of his
      seventy-five go to the tommy-shop for nothing but interest on the credit afforded! That
      interest is divided between the tommy-shop-keeper and the coal-mine proprietor.  
   there was no such thing at all as payment of wages in the current money of the
      kingdom. The tommy-shop-keeper paid the wages for the proprietors once a month: and how do you
      think he settled them? In ticket-money! This coinage consisted of pewter medals, or markers,
      with the sum that they represented, and the name of the tommy-shop on them. Thus, there were
      half-crowns, shillings, sixpences, and half-pence. But this money could only be passed at the
      tommy-shop from which it was issued; and there it must be taken out in goods. So, you see,
      that what with the truck-system and the tommy-shop, the poor miners are regularly swindled out
      of at least one fourth part of their fair earnings.  
  "The wages, in my time, were subject to great changes: I have known men earn twenty-five
      shillings a week at one time, and twelve or fifteen at another. And out of that they were
      obliged to supply their own candles and grease for the wheels of the carts or   trams  .
      The cost of this was about three-pence a day. Then, again, the fines were frequent and
      vexatious: it was calculated that they amounted to a penny a day per head. These sums all went
      into the coffers of the coal-owners.  
  "Such was the state of superstitious ignorance which prevailed in the mines, that every one
      believed in ghosts and spirits. Even old men were often afraid to work in isolated places; and
      the spots where deaths from accidents arose were particularly avoided. It was stated that the
      spectres of the deceased haunted the scenes of their violent departures from this world.  
  "By the time I was twelve years old I was as wild a young she-devil as any in the mines.
      Like the other females, I worked with only a pair of trousers on. But I would not consent to
      hurry the trams and skips. I saw that my mother had got a great bald place on her head, where
      she pushed the tram forward up sloping passages; and as I was told that even amidst the black
      and filth with which I was encrusted, I was a good-looking wench, I determined not to injure
      my hair. I may as well observe that a stranger visiting a mine, and seeing the boys and girls
      all huddling together, half-naked, in the caves or obscure nooks, could not possibly tell one
      sex from the other. I must say that I think, with regard to bad language and licentious
      conduct, the girls were far—far worse than the boys. It is true that in the neighbourhood of
      the pits Sunday-schools were established; but very few parents availed themselves of these
      means of obtaining a gratuitous education for their children. When I was twelve years old, I
      did not know how to read or write: I was unaware that there was such a book as the Bible; and
      all I knew of God and Jesus Christ was through the oaths and imprecations of the miners.  
  "It was at that period—I mean when I was twelve years old—that I determined to abandon the
      horrible life to which my mother had devoted me. I had up to that point preserved my health,
      and had escaped those maladies and cutaneous eruptions to which miners are liable; but I knew
      that my turn must come, sooner or later, to undergo all those afflictions. I saw nine out of
      ten of my fellow-labourers pining away. Some were covered with disgusting boils, caused by the
      constant dripping of the water upon their naked flesh in the pits. I saw young persons of my
      own age literally growing old in their early youth,—stooping, asthmatic, consumptive, and
      enfeebled. When they were washed on Sundays, they were the pictures of ill-health and
      premature decay. Many actually grew deformed in stature; and all were of stunted growth. It is
      true that their muscles were singularly developed; but they were otherwise skin and bone.  target="#ENG18460_N084" [84]   The young children were for the most part of contracted
      features, which, added to their wasted forms, gave them a strange appearance of ghastliness,
      when cleansed from the filth of the mine. The holers, or excavators, were bow-legged and
      crooked; the burriers and trammers knock-kneed and high-shouldered. Many—very many of the
      miners were affected with diseases of the heart. Then, who ever saw a person, employed in the
      pits, live to an advanced age? A miner of fifty-five was a curiosity: the poor creatures
      generally drooped at five-and-thirty, and died off by forty. They invariably seemed oppressed
      with care and anxiety: jollity was unknown amongst them. I have seen jolly-looking butchers,
      blacksmiths, carpenters, ploughmen, porters, and so on; but I never beheld a jolly-looking
      miner. The entire population that labours in the pits appears to belong to a race that is
      accursed!  
  "I pondered seriously upon all this; and every circumstance that occurred, and every scene
      around me, tended to strengthen my resolution to quit an employment worse than that of a
      galley-slave. I saw my mother wasting all her best energies in that terrible labour, and yet
      remaining poor—beggared! Scarcely enough for the present—not a hope for the future! Sometimes
      I wept when I contemplated her, although she had but little claims on my sympathy or
      affection; nevertheless, when I saw her bald head—her scalp thickened, inflamed, and sometimes
      so swollen, that it was like a bulb filled with spongy matter, and so painful that she could
      not bear to touch it,—when I heard her complain of the dreadful labour of pushing the heavy
      corves and trams with her sore head,—when I perceived her spine actually distorted with severe
      work; her stomach growing so weak that she frequently vomited her food almost as soon as it
      was eaten; her heart so seriously affected that the intervals of violent palpitation
      frequently made her faint; her lungs performing their functions with difficulty; her chest
      torn with a sharp hacking cough, accompanied by the expectoration of a large quantity of
      matter of a deep black colour, called by colliers the   black-spit  ;—when I saw her thus
      overwhelmed with a complication of maladies—dying before my eyes, at the age of
      thirty-three!—when I looked around, and beheld nine out of ten of all the persons employed in
      the pits, whether male or female, similarly affected,—I shuddered at the bare idea of devoting
      my youth to that horrible toil, and then passing to the grave while yet in the prime of
      life!  
  "I thought of running away, and seeking my fortune elsewhere. I knew that it was no use to
      acquaint my mother with my distaste for the life to which she had devoted me: she would only
      have answered my objections by means of blows. But while I was still wavering what course to
      pursue, a circumstance occurred which I must not forget to relate.  
   great earnestness of manner. Curiosity prompted me to stop and listen. 'Are you
      sure that is the case?' said Phil.—'Certain,' replied my mother. 'I shall be confined in about
      five months.'—'Well,' observed Phil, 'I don't know what's to be done. My old woman will kick
      up the devil's delight when she hears of it. I wish she was out of the way: I would marry you
      if she was.'—Then there was a profound silence for some minutes. It was broken by the man, who
      said, 'Yes, if the old woman was out of the way you and I might get married, and then we
      should live so comfortable together. I'm sure no man can be cursed with a wife of worse temper
      than mine.'—'Yes,' returned my mother, 'she is horrible for that.'—'Do you think there would
      be much harm in pushing her down a shaft, or shoving her head under the wheel of your tram,
      Bet?' asked Phil, after another pause.—'There would be no harm,' said my mother, 'if so be we
      wern't found out.'—'That's exactly what I mean,' observed Phil.—'But then,' continued my
      mother, 'if she didn't happen to   die   at once, she might peach, and get us both into a
      scrape.'—'So she might,' said Phil.—'I'll tell you what we might do,' exclaimed my mother, in
      a joyful tone: 'doesn't your wife come down at one to bring you your dinner?'—'Yes,' replied
      Phil Blossom: 'that's all the old cripple is good for.'—'Well, then,' pursued my mother, 'I'll
      tell you how we can manage this business.'—Then they began to whisper, and I could not gather
      another word that fell from their lips.  
  "I was so frightened at what I had heard that I crept quickly but cautiously back again to
      my place of labour, and sate down on the lower steps of the ladder, in the dark—determined to
      wait till some one should come, rather than go and ask Phil Blossom for a light. I had
      suddenly acquired a perfect horror of that man. I had understood that my mother was with child
      by him; and I had heard them coolly plotting the death of the woman who was an obstacle to
      their marriage. At my age, such an idea was calculated to inspire me with terror. I think I
      sate for nearly an hour in the dark, my mind filled with thoughts of a nature which may be
      well understood. At length a young woman, bearing a corf, came with a light; and I was no
      longer left in obscurity. I then plucked up my courage, took my basket, and went to Phil
      Blossom for a load of coal. My mother was not there; and he was working with his pickaxe as
      coolly as possible. He asked me what had made me so long in returning for a load; and I told
      him I had fallen down a few steps of the ladder and hurt myself. He said no more on the
      subject; and I was delighted to escape without a braying or basting. While I was loading my
      corf, he asked me if I should like to have him for a father-in-law. I said 'Yes' through fear,
      for I was always afraid of his   nieves  , as the colliers call their clenched fists. He
      seemed pleased; and, after a pause, said that if ever he was my father-in-law, I should always
      take my   bait   (or meals) with him in the cavern. I thanked him, and went on with my
      work; but I pretty well comprehended that the removal of Phil's wife by some means or another
      had been resolved on.  
  "Shortly before one o'clock that same day my mother came to the place where I was carrying
      the coals, and gave me a   butter-cake   (as we called bread and butter), telling me that
      she was going up out of the mine, as she must pay a visit to the tommy-shop for some candles
      and grease for herself, and some tobacco for Phil Blossom. I did not dare utter a word
      expressive of the suspicions which I entertained; but I felt convinced that this proceeding
      was in some way connected with the subject of the conversation which I had overheard. A
      strange presentiment induced me to leave my place of work, and creep along the passage to the
      foot of the shaft, in order to see whether Phil's wife would come down at the usual time with
      his bait. Several   half-marrows   and   foals   (as we called the young lads who
      pushed the trams) were at the end of the passage just at the foot of the shaft; and we got
      into conversation. It is a very curious thing to look up a shaft from the very bottom; the top
      seems no bigger than a sugar-basin. Well, the boys and I were chattering together about
      different things, when the click of the clatch-harness at the top of the shaft fell upon my
      ears. I peeped up and saw some one get on the clatch: then the creaking of the wheel and
      roller was heard. 'Here comes some one's bait, I dare say,' observed one of the
      half-marrows.—I wish it was mine,' said another; 'but I never get any thing to eat from
      breakfast-time till I go home at night.'—Scarcely were these words spoken when a piercing
      scream alarmed us: there was a rushing sound—the chains of the harness clanked fearfully—and
      down came a woman with tremendous violence to the bottom of the pit, the clatch rattling down
      immediately after her. A cry of horror burst from us all; the poor creature had fallen at our
      very feet. We rushed forward; but she never moved. The back part of her head was smashed
      against a piece of hard mineral at the bottom of the shaft. But her countenance had escaped
      injury; and as I cast a hasty glance upon it, I recognised the well-known face of Phil
      Blossom's crippled wife!  
  "One of the boys instantly hastened to acquaint him with the accident. He came to the spot
      when his wife lay a mangled heap, stone dead; and he began to bewail his loss in terms which
      would have been moving had I not been aware of their hypocrisy. The half-marrows were,
      however, deceived by that well-feigned grief, and did all they could to console him. I said
      nothing: I was confounded!  
  "In due time the cause of the   accident   was ascertained. It appeared that my mother
      had gone up the shaft, but when she got to the top she struck her foot so forcibly against the
      upright post of the machinery, that she lamed herself for the time. The old woman who presided
      over the machinery (as I have before said) very kindly offered to go to the tommy-shop for
      her, on condition that she would remain there to work the handle for people coming up or going
      down. This was agreed to. The very first person who wanted to go down was Mrs. Blossom; and my
      mother alleged that the handle unfortunately slipped out of her hand as she was unwinding the
      rope. This explanation satisfied the overseer of the mine: the intervention of the coroner was
      not deemed necessary;—my mother appeared much afflicted at the   accident  : Phil Blossom
      mourned the death of his wife with admirable hypocrisy;—the corpse was interred within
      forty-eight hours;—and thus was Phil's wife removed without a suspicion being excited!  
   struck me to the ground. From that instant I felt convinced that I was not safe.
      Accordingly, one Sunday, when I was washed quite clean, and had on a tolerably decent frock, I
      left the hovel which my mother occupied, and set out on my wanderings.  
  "I had not a penny in my pocket, nor a friend on the face of the earth to whom I could apply
      for advice, protection, or assistance. All that stood between me and starvation, that I could
      see, was a piece of bread and some cheese, which I had taken with me when I left home. I
      walked as far as I could without stopping, and must have been about six miles from the pit
      where I had worked, when evening came on. It was November, and the weather was very chilly. I
      looked round me, almost in despair, to see if I could discover an asylum for the night. Far
      behind me the tremendous chimneys and furnaces vomited forth flames and volumes of smoke; and
      the horizon shone as if a whole city was on fire: but in the spot where I then found myself,
      all was drear, dark, and lonely. I walked a little farther, and, to my joy, espied a light. I
      advanced towards it, and soon perceived that it emanated from a fire burning in a species of
      cave overhung by a high and rugged embankment of earth belonging to a pit that had most
      probably ceased to be worked. Crouching over this fire was a lad of about fifteen, clothed in
      rags, dirty, emaciated, and with starvation written upon his countenance. I advanced towards
      him, and begged to be allowed to warm myself by his fire. He answered me in a kind and
      touching manner; and we soon made confidants of each other. I told him my history, only
      suppressing my knowledge that the death of Phil Blossom's wife arose from premeditation,
      instead of accident, as I did not wish to get my mother into a scrape, although I had no
      reason to have any regard for her. The lad then acquainted me with his sad tale. He was an
      orphan; and his earliest remembrance was experienced in a workhouse, of which, it appeared, he
      had become an inmate shortly after his birth, his parents having been killed at the same time
      by the explosion of a fire-damp in the pit in which they had worked. When the lad was eight
      years old, the parish authorities apprenticed him to a miner, who gave him the name of
         Skilligalee  , in consequence of his excessive leanness. This man treated him very
      badly; but the poor boy endured all for a period of seven years, because he had no other
      asylum than that afforded him by his master. 'At length,' said the boy, 'a few weeks ago,
      master got hurt upon the head by the falling in of some coal where he was working; and from
      that moment he acted more like a madman than a human being. He used to seize me by the hair,
      and dash me against the side of the pit: sometimes he flogged me with a strap till my flesh
      was all raw. I could stand it no longer; so, about three weeks ago, I ran away. Ever since
      then I have been living, I can scarcely tell how. I have slept in the deserted cabins on the
      pits' bank, or in the old pits that have done working: I have got what I could to eat, and
      have even been glad to devour the bits of candles that the colliers had left in the pits. All
      this is as true as I am here.  target="#ENG18460_N085" [85]   Yesterday I found some
      matches in a pit; and that is how I have this good fire here now. But I am starving!'  
  "The poor fellow then began to cry. I divided with him my bread and cheese; and, when we had
      eaten our morsel, we began to converse upon our miserable condition. He had as much abhorrence
      of the mine as I had; he declared that he would sooner kill himself at once than return to
      labour in a pit; and I shared in his resolution. In less than an hour Skilligalee and myself
      became intimate friends. Varied and many were the plans which we proposed to earn a
      livelihood; but all proved hopeless when we remembered our penniless condition, and
      Skilligalee pointed to his rags. At length he exclaimed in despair, '  There is nothing left
       to do but to rob!  '—'  I am afraid that this is our only resource  ,' was my
       reply.—'  Do you mean it?  ' he demanded.—'  Yes!  ' I said boldly; and we
      exchanged glances full of meaning.  
  "'  Come with me,  ' said Skilligalee. I did not ask any questions, but followed him.
      He led the way in silence for upwards of half an hour, and at length lights suddenly shone
      between a grove of trees. Skilligalee leapt over a low fence, and then helped me to climb it.
      We were then in a meadow planted with trees—a sort of park, which we traversed, guided by the
      lights, towards a large house. We next came to a garden; and, having passed through this
      enclosure, we reached the back part of the premises. Skilligalee went straight up to a
      particular window, which he opened. He then crept through, and told me to wait outside. In a
      few minutes he returned to the window, and handed me out a large bundle, wrapped up in a
      table-cloth. He then crept forth, and closed the window. We beat a retreat from the scene of
      our plunder; and returned to the cave. The fire was still blazing, and Skilligalee fed it with
      more fuel, which he obtained by breaking away the wood from an old ruined cabin close by.  
  "We next proceeded to open the bundle, which I found to contain a quantity of food, six
      silver forks, and six spoons. Skilligalee then told me that the mansion which we had just
      robbed was the dwelling of the owner of the mine wherein he had worked for seven years, and
      where he had been so cruelly treated by the pit-man to whom he had been apprenticed. He said
      that he had sometimes been sent with messages to the proprietor, from the overseer in the
      mine, and that the servants on those occasions had taken him into the kitchen and given him
      some food. He had thus obtained a knowledge of the premises. 'Last night,' he added, 'I was
      reduced by hunger to desperation, and I went with the intention of breaking into the pantry.
      To my surprise I found the window open, the spring-bolt being broken. My courage, however,
      failed me; and I returned to this cave to suffer all the pangs of hunger. To-night you came:
      companionship gave me resolution; and we have got wherewith to obtain the means of doing
      something for an honest livelihood.  
  "We then partook of some of the cold meat and fine white bread which the pantry had
      furnished; and, while we thus regaled ourselves, we debated what we should do with the silver
      forks and spoons. I said before that I was decently dressed; but my companion was in rags. It
      was accordingly agreed that I should go to the nearest town in the morning, dispose of the
      plate, purchase some clothes for Skilligalee, and then rejoin him at the cave. This matter
      being decided upon, we laid down and went to sleep.  
   a loan. The pawnbroker questioned me so closely that I began to prevaricate: he
      called in a constable, and gave me into custody. I was taken before the magistrate; but I
      refused to answer a single question, being determined not to betray my accomplice. The
      magistrate remanded me for a week; and I was sent to prison. There I herded with juvenile
      thieves and prostitutes; and I cared little for my incarceration, because I was tolerably,
      and, at all events, regularly fed. When I was had up again, the owner of the mansion which I
      had helped to rob, was there to identify his property. I, however, still persisted in my
      refusal to answer any questions: I was resolved not to criminate Skilligalee; and I also felt
      desirous of being sent back to gaol, as I was certain of there obtaining a bed and a meal. In
      vain did the magistrate impress upon me the necessity of giving an explanation of the manner
      in which the plate came into my possession, for both he and the owner of the property were
      inclined to believe that I was only a tool, and not the original thief;—I remained dumb, and
      was remanded for another week.  
  "At the expiration of that period, I was again placed before the magistrate; and, to my
      surprise, I found Skilligalee in the court. He was still clothed in his rags, and looked more
      wretched and famished than when I first saw him. I gave him a look, and made a sign to assure
      him that I would not betray him; but the moment the case was called, he stood forward and
      declared that he alone was guilty,—that he had robbed the house, and that I was merely an
      instrument of whom he had made use to dispose of the proceeds of the burglary. I was overcome
      by this generosity on his part; and both the magistrate and the owner of the property were
      struck by the avowal. The latter declared that he did not wish to prosecute: the former
      accordingly inflicted a summary sentence of imprisonment for a few weeks upon Skilligalee. He
      then questioned me about my own condition; and I told him that I had worked in a mine, but
      that I had been compelled to run away from home in consequence of the ill treatment I received
      at the hands of my mother. I expressed my determination to put an end to my life sooner than
      return to her; and the gentleman, whose house had been robbed, offered to provide for me at
      his own expense, if the magistrate would release me. This he agreed to do; and the gentleman
      placed me as a boarder in a school kept in the town by two elderly widows.  
  "This school was founded for the purpose of furnishing education to the children of pit-men
      who were prudent and well disposed enough to pay a small stipend for that purpose, that
      stipend being fixed at a very low rate, as the deficiency in the amount required to maintain
      the establishment was supplied by voluntary contribution. There were only a few boarders—and
      they were all girls: the great majority of the pupils consisted of day-scholars. At this
      school I stayed until I was sixteen, when the gentleman who had placed me there took me into
      his service as housemaid.  
  "During the whole of that period I had never heard of my mother, or Phil Blossom. I now felt
      some curiosity to discover what had become of them; so, one day, having obtained a holiday for
      the purpose, I went over to the pit where I had myself passed so many miserable years. The
      same old woman, who had presided at the handle of the roller that raised or lowered the
      clatch-harness, during the period of my never-to-be-forgotten apprenticeship, was there still.
      She did not recognise me—I was so altered for the better. Clean, neatly dressed, stout, and
      tall, I could not possibly be identified with the dirty, ragged, thin, and miserable-looking
      creature who had once toiled in that subterranean hell. I accosted the old woman, and asked
      her if a woman named Betsy Flathers or Blossom worked in the mine. "Bet Blossom!" ejaculated
      the old woman: 'why, she's been dead a year!'—'Dead!' I echoed. 'And how did she die?'—'By
      falling down the shaft, to be sure,' answered the old woman.—Although I entertained little
      affection for my mother, absence and a knowledge of her character having destroyed all
      feelings of that kind, I could not hear this intelligence without experiencing a severe
      shock.—'Yes,' continued the old woman, 'it was a sort of judgment on her, I suppose, for she
      herself let a poor creature fall down some four or five years ago, when she took my place at
      the handle here for a few minutes while I went to the tommy-shop for her. She married the
      husband of the woman who was killed by the fall; and every body knew well enough afterwards
      that there wasn't quite so much neglect in the affair as she had pretended at the time, but a
      something more serious still. However, there was no proof; and so the thing was soon forgot.
      Well, one day, about a year ago, as I said just now, Phil Blossom came up to me and asked me
      to run to the tommy-shop to fetch him some candles. I told him to mind the wheel, and he said
      he would. It seems that a few minutes after I had left on his errand, his wife came up the
      clatch; and, according to what a lad, who looked up the shaft at the time, says, she had just
      reached the top, when she fell, harness and all, the whole pit echoing with her horrible
      screams. She died the moment she touched the bottom. Phil Blossom was very much cut up about
      it; but he swore that the handle slipped out of his hand, and then went whirling round and
      round with such force that he couldn't catch it again. I own people   did   say that Phil
      and his second wife led a precious dog-and-cat kind of a life; but the overseer thought there
      was no reason to make a stir about it, and there the matter ended.'—'And what has become of
      Phil Blossom?' I inquired.—The old woman pointed down the shaft, as much as to say that he was
      still working in the mine.—'Did they have any children?' I asked.—'Bet had one, I believe,'
      said the old woman; 'but it died a few days after it was born, through having too large a dose
      of Godfrey's Cordial administered to make it sleep.'—I gave the old woman a shilling, and
      turned away from the place, by no means anxious to encounter Phil Blossom, who, I clearly
      perceived, had rid himself of my mother by the same means which she had adopted to dispose of
      his first wife.  
   and girl. Now he was a tall young man, and had improved wonderfully. He told me
      that he had become acquainted with some excellent fellows when he was in prison, and that he
      had profited so well by their advice and example, that he led a jovial life, did no work, and
      always had plenty of money. I asked him how he managed; and he told me, after some hesitation,
      that he had turned house-breaker. There was scarcely a gentleman's house, within twelve miles
      round, that he had not visited in that quality. He then proposed that I should meet him on the
      following Sunday evening, and take a walk together. I agreed, and we separated.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I did not neglect my appointment. Skilligalee was delighted to see me again; and he
      proposed that I should leave service, and live with him. I consented; and——"  
  
  CHAPTER CXVII. THE RATTLESNAKE.  
  HERE the Rattlesnake abruptly broke off.  
  The Resurrection Man was asleep in his chair. It had not been without a motive that the
      woman so readily complied with the desire of the Resurrection Man that she should amuse him
      with the history of her life; and as she saw him gradually becoming more and more drowsy as
      her narrative progressed, an ill-concealed expression of joy animated her countenance.  
  At length, when the hand of the watch over the mantelpiece pointed to eight, and the
      Resurrection Man fell back in his chair fast asleep, she could hardly suppress an ejaculation
      of triumph.  
  She broke off abruptly in the midst of her narrative, and listened.  
  The nasal sounds that emanated from her companion convinced her that he slept.  
  Not a moment was now to be lost.  
  She knew full well that whenever Anthony Tidkins was overtaken by a nap in such a manner as
      the present, he invariably awoke a short time before the hour at which he had any business to
      transact; for that strange but fearful individual exercised a marvellous control over all his
      natural wants and propensities.  
   There could be no doubt that he slept profoundly.  
  She was, however, resolved to assure herself as far as possible on that head; and she
      purposely agitated the fire-irons against each other.  
  The Resurrection Man started slightly, but did not awake.  
  Perfectly satisfied on this point, Margaret Flathers hastened into the adjoining room, and
      put on her bonnet and shawl.  
  Having provided herself with her skeleton keys and some lucifer matches, she descended the
      stairs and went out of the house.  
  It was not, however, without an intense apprehension of danger that she proceeded to the
      execution of her scheme. Were the Resurrection Man to awake suddenly, and entertain any
      suspicion on discovering her absence, she knew that her life would not be worth an hour's
      purchase.  
  Still the temptation that now lured her to dare this terrific chance was so great—it was
      irresistible!  
  Her hesitation, when she stood in the street, was only of a moment's existence; and, calling
      all her courage to her aid, she plunged into the alley.  
  The door in that dark passage was opened in another moment: she closed and locked it
      carefully, and then entered the back room on the ground floor.  
  Having obtained a light, she raised the mysterious trap-door, and boldly descended the steps
      leading into the subterranean passage.  
  One of her keys soon opened the door of the cell in which the Resurrection Man had buried
      his treasure; but her joy at this disappearance of the only difficulty which she had
      apprehended, was adulterated by a sentiment of invincible terror, as she still thought of the
      possibility of detection by him whose desperate character inspired her with this tremendous
      alarm.  
  Nevertheless, she was resolved to dare every thing in the enterprise which she had
      undertaken.  
  "Fortune seemed to favour me this afternoon when I watched him," she murmured to herself;
      "and surely it will not desert me at the last moment."  
  Then she boldly entered the cell.  
  To take up the stone which covered the treasure, and possess herself of the bag that
      contained the gold over which she had a few hours previously beheld the Resurrection Man
      gloating in so strange a manner,—this was the work of only a few moments.  
  She replaced the stone: she clutched the bag with a feeling of wild joy commingled with
      terrific alarm; and she was hurrying from the cell, when something at the opposite side of the
      passage met her view, and for a moment riveted her to the spot.  
  A light was streaming from beneath the door of a dungeon facing the one on the threshold of
      which she stood.  
  Circumstances, which in the excitement of her present daring proceedings she had forgotten,
      now rushed like an overwhelming torrent to her memory.  
  The mysterious visits of the Resurrection Man in a mask and dark cloak to that subterranean
      place,—the bread and water which she had seen in the cupboard up stairs,—and the fearful
      scream that on one occasion had emanated from the depths where she now found herself,—these
      circumstances all flashed to her mind.  
  There was no longer any doubt: a human being—a female, most probably, judging by the tone of
      that agonising shriek which now seemed to ring in her ears as if its vibration had never once
      ceased—was immured in that dungeon whence the light streamed!  
  This conviction dissipated the alarm into which the sudden glare of that light had plunged
      the Rattlesnake.  
  Urged by several motives,—curiosity, a desire to obtain the reinforcement of a companion in
      case of the sudden appearance of the Resurrection Man, and, to do her justice, a feeling of
      compassion for a victim whom she believed to be of her own sex,—urged, we say, by these
      motives, which all presented themselves to her mind with the rapidity of lightning, the
      Rattlesnake hastened to open the door of that dungeon whence the light emanated.  
  She boldly entered the cell; and at the same moment Viola awoke.  
  Starting up from the bed, that unhappy lady glanced wildly around and exclaimed, "Where am
      I?"  
  "Hush! not a word," said the Rattlesnake, advancing towards her. "I am come to save
      you—follow me!"  
  Viola did not hesitate a single moment: the manner in which the woman addressed her, and a
      profound sense of the certainty that no treachery was needed to draw her into any position
      worse than her present one, since she was so completely in the power of the terrible master of
      that establishment, induced her to yield instantaneous compliance with the directions of the
      Rattlesnake.  
  "Fear nothing, lady," observed the latter; "only be silent, and lose not a moment."  
  She then hastened from the cell followed by Viola, who did not even wait to put on her
      bonnet and shawl.  
  They ascended the steps leading to the back-room, both hearts palpitating violently.  
  The Rattlesnake did not stop to close the mouth of the subterranean vaults, but hastened to
      apply the skeleton key to the door leading into the alley.  
  Her hand trembled to such an extent that she could not turn the key.  
  "O heavens!" she exclaimed in a tone of despair, "if   he   should come!"  
  "Have you the right key?" demanded Viola in a hurried tone.  
  "The one that has opened it before," replied Margaret;—"but it appears that—it will not
      turn—and, ah! my God, I hear steps approaching!"  
  The affrighted woman fell upon her knees, as if already to supplicate for her life.  
  Viola listened during half a minute of the most agonising suspense; but no sound from
      without met her ears.  
  "It was a false alarm," she exclaimed; then applying her hand to the key, she turned it with
      ease, for fear alone had prevented the Rattlesnake from moving it.  
  In another instant the door was opened.  
  "Thank God!" cried Margaret Flathers, starting from her suppliant posture, and clutching the
      bag of gold beneath her left arm.  
  "Come—let us not lose a moment," said Viola; and she darted into the alley, followed by the
      Rattlesnake.  
  There was no one to oppose their egress; but they could scarcely believe that they were
      really safe even when they found themselves in the street.  
   were at their heels;—they ran, doubting the fact, the one that she was free, the
      other that she was safe;—they ran—they ran, reckless of the way which they were pursuing, but
      each alike impressed with the conviction that it was impossible to place too great a distance
      between them and the dwelling of the Resurrection Man!  
  Margaret Flathers carried her treasure as if it were a thing of no weight: Viola Chichester
      forgot that she had neither bonnet nor shawl to protect her against the bitter chill of that
      wintry evening.  
  And thus, together, did they pursue their way—the virtuous wife and the abandoned woman,—the
      former thinking not what might be the character of her companion—the latter having now no
      curiosity to know the circumstances that had plunged the lady by her side into the captivity
      from which she had just been released.  
  At length they reached the New Church facing the Bethnal Green Road; and there they halted,
      both completely out of breath and exhausted.  
  "We are now safe," said Margaret Flathers.  
  "We are now safe," echoed Viola Chichester.  
  "Still this place is lonely——"  
  "And if that dreadful man were on our track—"  
  "We might yet repent——"  
  "Yes—we might yet repent our proceeding."  
  The minds of those two women—so distinct in all other respects—were now entirely congenial
      in reference to one grand absorbing idea.  
  In spite of the alarm which yet filled their imaginations, they lingered against the palings
      surrounding the field at the back of the New Church, for they were too exhausted to continue
      their flight for a few moments.  
  That interval of rest enabled them to direct their attention to other matters besides the
      immense danger from which they had just escaped, and the sense of which was still uppermost in
      their minds.  
  "Which way are you going, madam?" asked the Rattlesnake, who saw by Viola's air—in spite of
      the disadvantages under which her outward appearance laboured—that she was not one of the
      poorer orders.  
  "My own house is close by," answered Mrs. Chichester. "But you—whither are   you  
      going? Will it not be better for you to come with me—and——"  
  "No, lady," replied Margaret Flathers; "you are not aware who and what I am, or you would
      not make me that generous offer."  
  "Generous!" exclaimed Viola: "have you not saved me from a fearful dungeon? It is true that
      my persecutors promised to release me this evening: but, alas!   their   word was not to
      be depended upon."  
  "Ah! madam," said Margaret, "if you trusted to Anthony Tidkins to give you your freedom, you
      would have been woefully disappointed—unless, indeed, he had no longer any interest in keeping
      you a prisoner."  
  "Well—well," observed Viola, "we will talk of all that hereafter. In the mean time, I insist
      upon your accompanying me to my home."  
  "I will see you safe to your own door, madam," returned Margaret; "and there I shall leave
      you."  
  "And why will you refuse an asylum at my abode?" demanded Viola.  
  "I dare not remain in London," answered the Rattlesnake. "Oh! you know not the perseverance,
      the craft, and the wickedness of the man from whose power you have just escaped. But there is
      one favour, madam, which you can grant me——"  
  "Name it," exclaimed Viola: "it is already conferred, if within my power."  
  "You can have no difficulty in fulfilling my request," said the Rattlesnake, "because it is
      simple, and consists only in forbearance. I mean, madam, that you will amply reward me for the
      service I have been able to render you, if you will promise not to take any measures to punish
      or molest Anthony Tidkins. He has been more or less good to me; and I should not like to know
      that he was injured through me. Besides, his revenge would only be the more terrible, if ever
      you or I again fell into his hands."  
  "I give you the promise which you require," said Viola; "although I must confess that it is
      somewhat repugnant to my feelings to allow such a wretch to be at large with impunity."  
  "But for my sake, lady——"  
  "For your sake, I give my most solemn pledge not to do aught that may injure that man on
      account of his past offences."  
  "A thousand thanks!" ejaculated the Rattlesnake. "Let us now proceed. But, heavens! you have
      got nothing on your head nor on your shoulders; and I did not notice that before! Take my
      bonnet and shawl, madam—I am more accustomed to the cold than you."  
  "No," said Viola; "in five minutes I shall be at my own house. Come—let us proceed."  
  Mrs. Chichester and the Rattlesnake hastened towards the Cambridge Heath gate.  
  On reaching the door of her abode, Viola again pressed her companion to accept of her
      hospitality: but the Rattlesnake firmly, though respectfully, refused the offer.  
  "In another hour, madam," she said, "I shall not be in London.   Then   only shall I
      consider myself safe."  
  "At least allow me to supply you with some money for your immediate purposes. I have none
      about me, and I know not whether my husband has left a single shilling in the house; but any
      of my tradesmen in the neighbourhood will honour my draft; and if you will walk in for a few
      minutes—"  
  "Thank you, madam—thank you for your kind consideration; but I am well supplied;" and she
      shook the bag that she hugged beneath her arm.  
  Viola heard the jingling of the gold, and ceased to press her offer.  
  "At all events," she observed, "should you ever require a friend, do not hesitate to apply
      to Mrs. Chichester."  
  "Mrs. Chichester!" ejaculated the Rattlesnake: "surely I have heard that name before? Oh! I
      recollect—I have taken to the post-office letters from Tidkins to a Mr. Chichester, who, I
      suppose, must be your husband."  
  "The same," said Viola, with a profound sigh.  
  "Farewell, madam," cried the Rattlesnake: "I feel that I shall not breathe with freedom
      until I am far beyond London. Farewell."  
  "Farewell," said Mrs. Chichester, extending her hand towards her deliverer.  
  Margaret Flathers pressed it warmly, and then hurried away.  
  Viola knocked at the door, and was speedily admitted once more into her own dwelling.  
  The servant who received her, uttered an ejaculation of surprise when she beheld the
      condition in which her mistress had returned.  
   shutters of the windows are well secured; and bring me your master's
      pistols."  
  "Mr. Chichester came this morning early, ma'am," returned the servant, "and took away every
      thing belonging to him."  
  "Heaven be thanked!" cried Viola. "Perhaps he will molest me no more? God grant that the
      separation may be eternal! Nevertheless, secure the door and the windows: this house is not
      safe! To-morrow I shall leave it, and hire lodgings in the very heart of London.
         There  , perhaps," she murmured to herself, "no violence can be offered to me!"  
  
  CHAPTER CXVIII. THE TWO MAIDENS.  
  ON a fine frosty morning—about ten days after the incidents just related,—two young ladies
      were walking together along the road in the immediate vicinity of the dwelling of Count
      Alteroni (for so we had better continue to call him, until he himself shall choose to throw
      aside his incognito).  
  Did an artist wish to personify the antipodes,—as the ancients did their rivers, mounts, and
      groves,—upon his canvass, he could not possibly have selected for his models two maidens
      between whom there existed so great a physical contrast as that which was afforded to the eye
      by the young ladies above noticed.  
  The one was a brunette, and seemed a child of the sunny south; the other was as fair as ever
      daughter of our cold northern clime could be:—the one had the rich red blood mantling beneath
      a delicate tinge of the purest and most transparent   bistre  ; the other was pale and
      colourless as the whitest marble:—the generous mind and elevated intellect of the one shone
      through eyes large, black, and impassioned; the almost infantine candour and artlessness of
      the other were expressed by means of orbs of azure blue:—the glossy raven hair of the one was
      parted in two rich bands over the high and noble forehead; the flaxen tresses of the other
      fell in varied waves of pale auburn and gold, beneath the bonnet, over the shoulders:—the form
      of the one was well-rounded but sylph-like; the symmetry of the other was delicate and
      slight:—the appearance of the one excited the most ardent admiration tempered with respect;
      that of the other inspired the most lively interest:—the beauty of the one was faultless,
      brilliant, and dazzling; that of the other, ideal, fascinating, and bewitching:—the one, in
      fine, was a native of the warm Italian clime; the other, a daughter of Britain's sea-girt
      isle.  
  A shade of profound melancholy hung upon the countenance of Mary-Anne Gregory. The
      sprightly—gay—joyous—innocently volatile disposition had changed to sadness and gloom. Those
      vermilion lips, which until so lately were ever wreathed in smiles, now expressed care and
      sorrow. The step, though light, was no longer playfully elastic. Time had added but a few
      months to the sixteen years which marked the age of Mary-Anne when we first introduced her to
      our readers; but thought, and meditation, and grief had given to the mind the experience of
      maturity. She was no longer the gay, lively, flitting, bee-like being that she was when
      Richard Markham became her brothers' tutor: her manner was now painfully tranquil, her air
      profoundly pensive, her demeanour inconsistently grave when considered in relation to her
      years.  
  It seemed as if there were a canker at the heart of that fair creature; as if the hidden
      worm were preying upon the delicate rose-bud ere it expanded into the bloom of maturity!  
  And these traits and symptoms were rendered the more apparent by the contrast afforded by
      the rich health and youthful vigour which characterised the Signora Isabella. The hues of the
      rose were seen beneath the soft brunette tint of her complexion—for that complexion was clear
      and transparent as the stream over which the trees throw a shade beneath a summer sun.  
  And both those maidens loved: but the passion of the English girl was without hope; while
      that of the noble Italian lady was nurtured by the fondest aspirations.  
  But how came those charming creatures thus acquainted with each other?  
  Perhaps their conversation may elucidate this mystery.  
  "We have only known each other one short week," said Mary-Anne; "and yet I feel as if you
      were sent to me by heaven to become my friend and confidant—for, oh! it seems to me as if my
      soul nourished a secret which consumes it."  
  "An accident made us acquainted; and that very circumstance immediately inspired me with a
      deep interest in your behalf," returned the signora. "There are occasions when two persons
      become more intimate in a few short days, than they otherwise would in as many years."  
  "You echo my own feelings, signora," said Mary-Anne; "and your goodness makes me desire to
      deserve and gain your friendship."  
  "Your wish is already accomplished, my dear Miss Gregory," observed Isabella. "You have my
      friendship; and if you think me worthy of your confidence, I can sympathise with your sorrows,
      even if I cannot remove them."  
  "How have you divined that the confidence I would impart is associated with grief?" asked
      Mary-Anne, hastily.  
   should be completely recovered from the effects of your fall. Your father
      consented, and he left you with us. It was not long before I perceived that you nourished a
      profound grief;—I observed the frequent abstraction of your manner—I noticed your pensive
      mood. I thought within myself, '  Is it possible that one so young and interesting should
       already be acquainted with sorrow?  ' From that hour I have felt deeply on your
      account—for, alas! I myself have known what are the effects of grief!"  
  "Signora," said Mary-Anne, with tears in her eyes, "I can never repay you for this kind
      interest which you manifest towards me. I feel that I should be happier were I to tell you all
      that grieves me; but I tremble—lest you should think me very foolish, and very
      indiscreet!"  
  "Foolish we may all be at times," said Isabella; "but indiscreet I am convinced you never
      were."  
  "Is it not indiscreet to nurse a sentiment whose hopes can never be realised? Is it not
      indiscreet," added Mary-Anne, hanging down her head, and speaking in a low tone, "to love one
      who loves another?"  
  "No—not indiscreet," answered Isabella, hastily: "for what mortal has power over the
      heart?"  
  "Signora, love is not then a stranger to your breast!" exclaimed Mary-Anne, glancing with
      tearful eyes up to the countenance of the Italian lady.  
  "I should be unworthy of your confidence, were I to withhold mine," said Isabella. "Yes—my
      troth is plighted to one than whom no living soul possesses more generous, more noble
      feelings: and yet," she added, with a sigh, "there are obstacles in the way of our
      union—obstacles which, alas! I sometimes think, can never be overcome!"  
  "Ah! lady, while I can now feel for you—feel most deeply," said Mary-Anne, "I am,
      nevertheless, rejoiced that you have thus honoured me with your confidence. It removes any
      hesitation—any alarm, on my part, to unburden my soul to you!"  
  "Speak, my dear Mary-Anne," returned Isabella: "you will at least be certain to receive
      sympathy and consolation from me."  
  "I shall then reveal my sentiments unreservedly," continued Mary-Anne. "I have before
      mentioned to you that I have two brothers, who are now at college. A few months ago, they were
      preparing for their collegiate course of study, and were residing at home in Kentish Town. My
      father obtained for them the assistance of a tutor—a young gentleman who had once been
      wealthy, but who had been reduced to comparative poverty. Oh! it was impossible to see that
      young man without feeling an interest in him. When I first heard that a tutor was engaged for
      my brothers, I immediately pictured to myself a confirmed pedagogue—shabby, dirty, dogmatic,
      and ugly. How greatly then was I astonished, when I was introduced to an elegant and handsome
      young man, of polished manners, agreeable conversation, entirely unassuming, courteous, and
      affable? There was a partial air of melancholy about him; but his eyes were lighted with the
      fire of intellect, and his noble forehead seemed to be adorned with that unartificial crown of
      aristocracy which nature bestows upon her elect. Alas! woe to me was the day when that young
      man first entered my father's dwelling. The interest I felt for him soon augmented to a
      degree, that I was miserable when he was away. But, when he was present, oh! then my heart
      seemed to bound within me like a fawn upon the hills; and my happiness was of the most
      ravishing description—I was gay, frolicksome, and playful: no laugh of a child was so hearty,
      so sincere as mine! His voice was music to my ears! He taught me drawing; but I was too happy
      to sit still for many minutes together—too happy to sit next to him! And yet I did not
      understand my own feelings: in fact, I never stopped to analyse them. I was carried along by a
      whirlwind that left me no leisure for self-examination. When he was absent, my only thought
      was upon what he had said when present, and how happy I should be when he came once more. I
      had no more idea of the true nature of the sentiment that animated my soul, than I have at
      this instant of what constitutes the happiness of heaven. I knew that I felt happy when he was
      there: I know that those feel happy who dwell above;—but I was as ignorant then of what formed
      my felicity, as I now am of the bliss experienced by those who inhabit the Almighty's kingdom.
      Thus a few weeks passed away; and then my father announced his intention of allowing a holiday
      for a short period. I remember—as well as if it were an event of yesterday—that this
      arrangement caused me serious displeasure; because I understood that our tutor would cease to
      visit us during the suspension of the studies. I expressed my annoyance in plain terms; but
      this ebullition on my part was most probably considered a specimen of girlish caprice, or the
      airs of a spoiled child. And now, signora—now——"  
  "Call me Isabella," said the Italian lady, affectionately.  
  "Now, my dear Isabella," preceded Mary-Anne, "I come to that part of my narrative which
      involves an indiscretion that may appear grave in your eyes—though, God knows, I was at the
      time entirely ignorant of the imprudence of the step which I was taking."  
  "I am prepared to allow every extenuation for one so young, so artless, and so inexperienced
      as yourself," observed Isabella.  
  "Ah! how kind you are," returned Mary-Anne, pressing her companion's hand. "But let me not
      hesitate to reveal the indiscretion into which I was hurried by feelings of a new and powerful
      nature, I called upon the young tutor at his own residence! And then, how nobly did he behave!
      how generously did he act! He explained to me—by degrees, and in the most delicate manner
      possible—the impropriety of the step which I had taken: he gave me an insight into those rules
      of feminine propriety, a breach of which can scarcely be extenuated by the plea of
      guilelessness;—in a word, he opened my eyes to the position in which I had placed myself! But,
      alas! what did I learn at the same time? He told me that he was attached to a young lady, who
      was very beautiful. It then struck me, with lightning rapidity, that I had no right to offer
      my   friendship   (for still I did not dream of   love  ) to one on whom another
      heart had claims; and I left him with a sincere apology for my conduct."  
  "I admit that your indiscretion was great," said the pure-minded Isabella; "but no one
      possessing a generous heart could hesitate to sympathise with you, rather than blame."  
   me, by restoring me to that state of perfect happiness which was mine ere I knew
      that being who, in spite of himself, exercised so powerful an influence over me. At length my
      father sent me suddenly, and without a day's warning, to pass a week with some particular
      friends at Twickenham. I was at first inclined to remonstrate with him at this proceeding; and
      then it struck me that it would be well if I were to cease to exist under the spell which the
      frequent presence of the tutor at the house seemed to throw around me."  
  "And all this time you were still unaware of the true nature of the feelings which animated
      you?" inquired Isabella.  
  "Oh! yes—I was indeed," answered Mary-Anne: "but a fearful occurrence was speedily destined
      to open my eyes! I remained a few days with my kind friends at Twickenham, and then returned
      home. I there learnt that the tutor had ceased to attend at the house, as my brothers were to
      proceed, at the commencement of January, to college. I know not whether my father had some
      motive for the conduct which he thus pursued, in abruptly dismissing the tutor and sending me
      away while he adopted that step; nor can I say whether any particular reason prompted him to
      do all that he could to amuse my mind on my return home. It is, nevertheless, certain that he
      exerted himself to provide amusements for me: he purchased two horses, and accompanied me in
      frequent equestrian exercises; he took me to concerts and the theatres; and supplied me with
      entertaining books of travel and adventure, music, and pictures. But my mind was intent only
      upon one absorbing idea; nor could it be weaned from that feeling which it nursed in favour of
      the young tutor. I, however, acceded to all my father's plans of diversion; and it was one
      evening at the theatre that the veil fell from my eyes! I accompanied my father to witness a
      new drama. The action of the piece was deeply interesting; the poetry was of a nature to touch
      the inmost soul. There was a passage in which the heroine described her hopeless love: I
      listened—I drank in every word—I hung upon each syllable of that fine speech as if my own
      destiny were intimately linked with the scene enacting before me. As she proceeded, I was
      painfully surprised by the similitude existing between the feelings that   she  
      described and that   I   felt. At length a light dawned in upon my soul;—then did I begin
      to comprehend the real nature of the sentiments that filled my own soul;—then could I read my
      own heart! I perceived that I loved tenderly, deeply, unalterably! I heard no more of the
      drama—I saw nothing more of its progress: I sate absorbed in deep reflection upon the
      conviction that had so suddenly reached me. When I awoke from my reverie, the tragedy——"  
  "A tragedy?" said Isabella, hastily.  
  "Yes—the tragedy was finished, and the author, holding the hand of the heroine of his piece,
      stood before the public. Merciful heavens! the great tragic writer who had thus suddenly burst
      upon the world, was no other than the young tutor!"  
  "The tutor!" exclaimed Isabella, a strange suspicion suddenly entering her mind.  
  "Yes—he whom I had just discovered that I loved," answered Mary-Anne.  
  "May I inquire his name?" said Isabella, in a tremulous tone, and with a palpitating
      heart.  
  "There can be no indiscretion in revealing it," returned Miss Gregory; "for it is not
      probable that you have ever heard of Mr. Richard Markham."  
  "Unhappy girl!" exclaimed Isabella, in a tone of deep sympathy—but without the least feeling
      of jealousy; "it is now my duty to return your confidence with a reciprocal frankness. But,
      alas! what I am about to say cannot tend to soothe your sorrows, since—as I fondly believe—it
      will only confirm you in the impression that the affections of him whom   you   love are
      fixed elsewhere."  
  "You speak mysteriously, Isabella," said Mary-Anne: "pray, explain yourself."  
  "I will—and without reserve," continued the signora, a blush mantling upon her beauteous
      countenance. "So far from Mr. Richard Markham being a stranger to me, Mary-Anne, he is——"  
  "He is—" repeated Miss Gregory, mechanically.  
  "He is the hope of my happiness—the one to whom my vow of constancy and love is
      pledged——"  
  "You the object of his attachment!" ejaculated Mary-Anne, clinging to Isabella for support:
      "Oh! forgive me—forgive me, that I have dared to love him also!"  
  "Alas! dear girl, I have nothing to forgive," said Isabella, affectionately: "I
      deeply—deeply compassionate your lot. And, oh! believe me," continued the generous Italian
      Princess,—"believe me when I say that no feeling of petty jealousy—no sentiment unworthy the
      honourable affection which I bear towards Richard Markham—can ever impair the friendship that
      has commenced, and shall continue, between you and me!"  
  "Oh! how noble is your disposition, Isabella!" exclaimed Mary-Anne. "But your generous
      assurance shall not meet with an ungrateful return. So far from feeling jealous of
       you,—  envious   I must be, to some extent,—I offer you the most sincere congratulations
      on your engagement to one who is so well worthy of your love—in spite of what the world may
      say against him;—for that he could be guilty of the deed of which that horrible man accused
      him——"  
  "He is not guilty," answered Isabella, firmly. "The story is a long one; but I will tell
      thee all."  
  The signora then related to her companion the narrative of the misfortunes and sufferings of
      Richard Markham.  
  Mary-Anne listened with profound attention, and, when Isabella terminated her history,
      exclaimed, "Oh! I knew that he was all of honourable, great, and generous, that human nature
      could be!"  
  A profound silence then ensued between the two young ladies, and lasted for some
      minutes.  
  At length it was broken by Mary-Anne.  
  "Oh! well might   he   have said," she exclaimed, in a sudden ebullition of feeling, as
      she gazed upon the countenance of the signora,—"well might he have said that his heart was
      devoted to a lady who was very beautiful! And he might also have observed, as good as she was
      lovely!"  
  "Nay—you must not flatter me," returned Isabella.  
  "You need not hesitate to hear the truth from my lips," said Mary-Anne. "God grant that I
      may live to see you happily united: I shall then die in peace."  
  "It is wrong to talk of dying at your age," observed Isabella. "Time will mitigate that
      passion which has made you unhappy——"  
  "Oh! Isabella, do   you   believe that true and sincere love can ever succumb to time?"
      exclaimed Mary-Anne, almost reproachfully.  
    
  "But time will only ripen, and not eradicate, the canker which gnaws at the heart,"
      persisted Miss Gregory; "and   mine  ," she added with a mournful pathos of tone that
      showed how deeply she felt the truth of what she said,—"  mine   has received a wound
      whose effects may be comparatively slow, but which is not the less mortal. A few years,
      perhaps, and my earthly career must end. I shall wither like the early flowers, that peep
      forth prematurely to greet a deceptive gleam of sunshine which they mistake for spring:—I
      shall pass away at that age when my contemporaries are in the full enjoyment of life, vigour,
      and happiness! Yes—I feel it here—  here  ;"—and she pressed her hand upon her heart.  
  "No, my dear friend," said Isabella, affected even to tears; "your prospect is not so gloomy
      as you would depict it. There is one star that burns in the same heaven which is above us
      all;—and that star is Hope."  
  "Hope!" ejaculated Mary-Anne, bitterly: "ah! where does hope exist for me? Is not hope
      extinguished in my heart for ever?"  
  "In the one sense, hope is dead," answered Isabella, mildly; "but hope beams not only in one
      sphere. The attentions of your friends—the kindness of your relations, will combine to cheer
      your path; and surely this conviction must be allied to hopes of tranquillity, peace, and even
      happiness! Consider, Mary-Anne—you have a father who is still in the vigour of his years: you
      will live for him! You have brothers who must soon enter upon their respective careers in the
      great world: you must live for them! You have friends who are devoted to you: you will live
      for them also! Oh! do not speak of death with levity: do not seem to invite its presence! We
      do not live for ourselves only: we live for others. To yield to those feelings which
      facilitate the ravages of sorrow and encourage the inroads of grief, is to perpetrate a slow
      suicide. God and man alike require that we should war against our misfortunes!  
  "Alas! I have not that great moral courage which characterises your soul, Isabella,"
      answered Mary-Anne: "I am a weak and fragile plant, that bends to the lightest gale. How,
      then, can I resist the terrible tempest?"  
  "By exerting that fortitude with which every mind is more or less endowed, but which cannot
      be developed without an effort," answered Isabella.  
  Mary-Anne sighed, but gave no answer.  
  The two maidens now felt wearied with the somewhat lengthy walk which they had taken; and
      they accordingly retraced their steps to the mansion.  
  
  CHAPTER CXIX. POOR ELLEN!  
  IT was evening; and a cheerful fire burned in the grate of the drawing-room at
      Markham-Place.  
  Mr. Monroe and his daughter were seated in that apartment; the former dozing in an
      arm-chair, the latter reading a novel.  
  Richard was engaged in a literary pursuit in his library.  
  From time to time Miss Monroe laid aside her book, and fell into meditation. Not that she
      had any particular subject for her reflections; but the events of her life, when taken
      together, constituted a theme from which it was impossible to avert her attention for any
      lengthened period.  
  There was also a topic upon which she pondered more frequently as time passed on. She knew
      that in the course of nature,—especially after the rude shocks which his constitution had
      received from mental suffering and bodily privation,—her father could not live much longer.
      Then, she was well aware that she could not continue to dwell beneath the same roof with
      Richard Markham;—and her pride revolted against the idea of receiving a direct eleemosynary
      assistance from him in the shape of a pecuniary allowance. She had some few pounds treasured
      up in a savings bank, and which she had saved from her salary when engaged at the theatre; but
      this sum would not maintain her long. She therefore looked, with occasional anxiety, to the
      necessity of adopting some course that should obtain for her a livelihood. Of all the
      avocations in which she had been engaged, she preferred that of the stage; and there were
      times when she seriously thought of returning to the profession, even during her father's
      life-time.  
  In sooth, it was a pity that one of the brightest ornaments of female loveliness should have
      been lowered by circumstances from the pedestal of virtue and modesty which she would have so
      eminently adorned. Should her transcendent loveliness captivate the heart of any individual
      whose proposals were alike honourable and eligible, how could she accept the hand thus
      extended to her? She must either deceive him in respect to that wherein no man likes to be
      deceived; or she must decline the chance of settling herself advantageously for life. These
      were the alternatives;—for in no case could she reveal her shame!  
  Her fate was not, therefore, a happy one; and the reader need not marvel if she now and then
      found reflections of a disagreeable nature stealing into her soul.  
  She was now past twenty years of age: and in spite of the severe trials which she had
      endured, the sweet freshness of her youthful charms was totally unimpaired. Her faultless
      Grecian countenance,—her classically-shaped head,—her swan-like neck,—her symmetrical
      form,—her delicate hands and feet,—all those charms which had been perpetuated in the works of
      so many artists—these elements of an almost superhuman beauty still combined to render her
      passing lovely!  
  O Ellen! the soul of the philanthropist must mourn for thee,—for thou wast not wrongly
      inclined by nature. On a purer being than thou wast, ere misery drove thee in an evil moment
      to an evil course, the sun never shone:—and now thou hast to rue the shame which thine
      imperious destiny, and not thy faults, entailed upon thee!  
  But to our tale.  
  Old Mr. Monroe was dozing in the arm-chair; and Ellen had once more turned her eyes upon her
      book, when Marian entered the room.  
  She perceived at a glance that Mr. Monroe was asleep; and, placing her finger upon her lip
      to enjoin silence, she put a note into Ellen's hand, saying it the same time in a low whisper,
      "Mr. Wentworth's servant has just brought this, with a request that it should be immediately
      conveyed to you. Miss."  
  Marian then withdrew.  
  Ellen tore open the note, and read as follows:—  
  
  "I grieve to state that your little Richard has been attacked with a sudden and dangerous
       malady. Come to my house for an hour—if you can possibly steal away, without exciting
       suspicion. My servant will convey this to you through your faithful confidant.  
    "DAVID WENTWORTH."    
  
    
  Ellen flung the note frantically upon the table, and rushed out of the room.  
  She hurried up stairs, put on her bonnet and cloak, and, having told Marian to sit up for
      her, hastened from the house—one sole idea occupying her mind,—the danger of her well-beloved
      child!  
  When she arrived at Mr. Wentworth's abode, she was received by that gentleman's wife, who
      immediately said, "The danger is over—the crisis is past! Do not alarm yourself—my husband no
      longer fears for your son's life. He, however, deemed it to be his duty to send for you."  
  "Oh! he did well—he acted kindly and considerately," returned Ellen. "But let me assure
      myself that my boy is no longer in danger."  
  Mrs. Wentworth led the way to the chamber where little Richard was now sleeping tranquilly,
      the surgeon seated by the bed-side.  
  From his lips Ellen gathered hope that the perilous crisis had passed: she nevertheless
      determined to remain for some time to assure herself that any return of the spasms might not
      be fraught with increased danger. All other considerations were banished from her mind; she
      thought not of her father—she remembered not that her absence might alarm both him and Richard
      Markham; and when Mr. Wentworth delicately alluded to that subject, as time slipped by, she
      uttered some impatient remark intimating that she should not be at a loss for an excuse to
      account for her protracted absence.  
  Thus the pure and holy maternal feeling was now uppermost in the mind of that young lady:
      the danger of her child was the all-absorbing subject of her thoughts.  
  Bent over the bed, she tenderly gazed upon the pale countenance of her child.  
  Oh! where can the artist find a more charming subject for his pencil, or the poet a more
      witching theme for his song, than the young mother watching over her sleeping infant?  
  Hour after hour passed; and when the babe awoke, Ellen nursed him in her arms. In spite of
      its illness, the little sufferer smiled; but when the pang of the malady seized upon him, it
      was Mrs. Wentworth—and not Ellen—who could pacify him!  
  Alas! galling indeed to the young mother was this conviction that her child clung to another
      rather than to herself.  
  Nevertheless Ellen watched the babe with the most heartfelt tenderness; and it was not until
      near midnight, when the surgeon declared that the malady had passed without the remotest fear
      of a relapse, that Ellen thought of returning home.  
  She then took her departure, with an intimation that she should call again in the
      morning.  
  She retraced her steps towards the Place, and, passing up the garden, was admitted through
      the back entrance by the faithful Marian.  
  "My child is saved," whispered Ellen to the servant. "Has my father inquired for me?"  
  "No, miss," was the reply. "He is still in the drawing-room; and Mr. Markham is with
      him."  
  "They are up late to-night," remarked Ellen. "But I," she continued, "am weary in mind and
      body, and shall at once repair to my own room."  
  Marian gave the young lady a candle, and wished her a good night's rest.  
  Ellen hastened cautiously up-stairs, and in a few minutes retired to rest.  
  She was fatigued, as before intimated; and yet slumber refused to visit her eyes.
      Nevertheless, she dozed uneasily,—in that kind of semi-sleep which weighs down the heavy lids,
      and yet does not completely shut out from the mind the consciousness of what is passing
      around.  
  A quarter of an hour had probably elapsed since Ellen had sought her couch, when the door
      slowly opened; and her father entered the room, bearing a light in his hand.  
  The countenance of the old man was ghastly pale; but there was a wildness in his eyes which
      bore testimony to the painful feelings that agitated him within.  
  He advanced towards the bed, and contemplated the countenance of his daughter for a few
      moments with an expression of profound sorrow.  
  Ellen opened her eyes, and started up in the bed, exclaiming, "My dear father, in the name
      of heaven, what is the matter?"  
  "O God! Ellen," cried the old man, placing the light upon a side-table, "tell me that it is
      not true—say but one word, to assure me that you are the pure and spotless girl I have always
      deemed you to be!"  
  "Father!" exclaimed the young lady, a horrible feeling taking possession of her, "why do you
      ask me that question?"  
  "Because a fearful suspicion racks my brain," answered the old man; "and I could not retire
      to rest until I knew the truth—be that truth what it may."  
  "My dear father—you alarm me cruelly!" said Ellen, her cheeks at one moment suffused with
      blushes, and then varying to ashy whiteness.  
  "In one word, Ellen," exclaimed the old man, "what is the meaning of that letter?"  
  And the almost distracted father threw the surgeon's note upon the bed.  
  In an instant Ellen remembered that she had left it behind her in the room where she was
      seated with her father when she received it.  
  Joining her hands in a paroxysm of the most acute mental agony, she burst into tears, crying
      wildly, "Forgive me! forgive me—my dear, dear father! Do not curse your wretched—wretched
      daughter!"  
  And then she bowed her head upon her bosom, and seemed to await her parent's reply in a
      state of mind which no pen can describe.  
  For some moments Mr. Monroe maintained a profound silence: but the quivering of his lip, and
      the working of the veins upon his forehead betrayed the terrible nature of the conflict of
      feelings which was taking place within his breast.  
  At length he also burst into tears, and covering his face with his hands, exclaimed, "My
      God! that I had died ere I had experienced this bitter—bitter hour!"  
  These words were uttered in a tone of such intense agony, that a mortal dread for her
      father's reason and life suddenly sprang up in Ellen's mind.  
  Throwing herself from the bed, she fell upon her knees, crying, "Forgive me, my dear father.
      Oh! if my child were here, I would hold it in my arms towards you; and, when its innocent
      countenance met your eyes, you would pardon   me  !"  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "What! Richard?—oh! no, no!" ejaculated Ellen, in a tone of ineffable anguish; then, as the
      thought of   who the father of her child really was   flashed across her memory, she gave
      utterance to a terrible moan, and sank backwards, senseless, upon the floor.  
  "Ellen! Ellen!" cried the old man: "Ellen—my dearest daughter, Ellen—oh! I have killed
      her!"  
  At that moment Marian, bearing a light, entered the room.  
  "Water! water!" exclaimed the agonised father: "she is insensible—she is dying!"  
  Then hastily filling a tumbler from a decanter of water which stood upon the toilet-table,
      he knelt down by the side of his daughter, and bathed her temples.  
  In a few moments Ellen partially recovered, and gazed wildly around her.  
  "My sweet child," murmured the old man, pressing her hand to his lips, "live—live for me:
      all shall be forgiven—all forgotten. I was harsh to thee, my Ellen—to thee who have always
      been so fond, so tender, and so good to me."  
  "Leave her, sir, for the present," said Marian: "allow her to compose herself. This
      discovery has been almost too much for her!"  
  "I will," returned Mr. Monroe. "You must stay with her, good Marian; and in the morning I
      will come and see her."  
  The old man then withdrew.  
  
  CHAPTER CXX. THE FATHER AND DAUGHTER.  
  IT was nine o'clock in the morning.  
  Ellen was lying, pale and tearful, in her bed, by the side of which sate her father.  
  The past night had worked a fearful change in the old man: his countenance was haggard, his
      look desolate and forlorn.  
  At one moment his lips quivered as if with concentrated rage: at another he wiped tears from
      his eyes.  
  Ellen watched him with the deepest interest.  
   the name of him who has dishonoured you?" said the old man, in slow and measured
      terms.  
  "Oh! my dear father, why will you persist in torturing me?" exclaimed Ellen. "Do you think
      that I have not suffered enough?"  
  "Oh! I can well believe that you have suffered, Ellen—suffered profoundly," returned Monroe;
      "for you were reared in the ways of virtue; and you could not have fallen into those of crime
      without a remorse. Suffered! but how have I not suffered during the last few hours! When I
      read that fearful secret, I became a madman. I had but two ideas: my daughter was a mother,
      and her child's name was   Richard  ! What could I think? I went straight to the room
      where our benefactor was sitting: I closed the door; I approached him, with the rage of a
      demon in my breast, and I said, '  Villain! is my daughter's honour the price of the
       hospitality which you have shown towards us?  ' He was thunderstruck; and I showed him the
      letter. He burst into tears, exclaiming, '  Could you believe me capable of such infernal
       atrocity?  ' Then we reasoned together; we conversed upon the subject; and his noble
      frankness of manner convinced me that I had erred—grossly erred! He implored me to allow the
      night to pass ere I revealed to you the appalling discovery which I had made: he dreaded the
      effects of my excited state of mind; he thought that rest would calm me. But there was no rest
      for me! I retired to my room; and there—when alone—I felt that I could not endure meditation.
      I came to your chamber; and then—O God! the doubt to which I had yet so fondly clung was
      dissipated."  
  "My dear father, if you knew all," said Ellen, weeping, "you would pity me—oh! you would
      pity me! Do not think that I surrendered myself to him who is the father of my child, in a
      moment of passion: do not imagine that the weakness was preceded by affection on my part for
      him who led me astray!"  
  "Unhappy girl, what mean you?" ejaculated Mr. Monroe. "Would you rob yourself of the only
      plea of extenuation which woman in such a case can offer? Speak, Ellen!"  
  "I will tell you all—that is, all I know," added Ellen, with a blush. "You remember that
      when we returned to live in that horrible court in Golden Lane, the second time we were
      reduced to poverty,—you remember what fearful privations we endured! At length our misery
      reached a point when it became intolerable; and one morning you set out with the determination
      of seeking relief from the bounty of Richard Markham."  
  "I well remember it," said Monroe. "Proceed."  
  "You can then call to mind the circumstance of my absence when you returned home to our
      miserable abode——"  
  "I do—I do: hours passed—I had gold—and you were absent!" ejaculated the old man, with
      feverish impatience.  
  "And when I returned home—late—" continued Ellen, her voice scarcely rising above a whisper,
      and her face, neck, and bosom suffused with burning blushes, "did I not bring you gold
      also?"  
  "Merciful heavens!" cried Monroe, starting from his seat; "say no more, Ellen—say no more—or
      I shall go mad! Oh, God! I comprehend it all! You went and sold yourself to some libertine for
      gold!"  
  The old man threw himself into his daughter's arms, and wept bitterly.  
  "Father—dear father, calm yourself," said Ellen.  
  "I could not see you want—I had no faith in the success of your appeal to him who has since
      been our benefactor—I thought that there was but   one resource   left;—but," she added,
      her eyes kindling with the fire of pride, while her father sank back into his seat, "I call my
      God to witness that I acted not thus for myself. Oh, no! death sooner should have been my
      fate. But you, my dear father, you wanted bread; you were starving; and that was more than I
      could bear! I sinned but once—  but once  ; and never, never have I ceased to repent of
      that fatal step—for my one crime bore its fruit!"  
  Monroe was convulsed with grief. The tears trickled through the wrinkled hands with which he
      covered his venerable countenance; his voice was lost in agonising sobs, and all he could
      utter were the words: "Ellen, my daughter, it is for me to ask pardon of you!"  
  "No, say not so, dear father—say not so!" ejaculated Miss Monroe, throwing her arms around
      him, and kissing his forehead and his hands. "No, my dear father, it was not your fault, if
      misery drove me to despair. But now you perceive," she added, solemnly, "that I was more to be
      pitied than to be blamed; and—and," she murmured, the falsehood at such a moment almost
      suffocating her, "you understand why I cannot tell you who was the father of my child!"  
  There was something so terrible in the idea that a young, virtuous, and lovely girl had
      prostituted herself to the first unknown libertine who had bid a price for her
      charms,—something so appalling to a father in the thought that his only child had been urged
      by excess of misery and profound affection for him, to such a dismal fate, that Monroe seemed
      to sink under the blow!  
  For some time did his daughter vainly endeavour to solace him; and it was only when she
      herself began to rave and beat her bosom with anguish and in despair, that the old man was
      recalled to a sense of the necessity of calming his almost invincible emotions.  
  The father and daughter were at length restored to partial tranquillity by each other's
      endeavours at reciprocal consolation, and were commingling their tears together, when the door
      opened.  
  Markham, followed by Marian, entered the room.  
  But what was the surprise of Mr. Monroe—what was the joy of Ellen, when Marian advanced
      towards the bed, and presented the child to her mother!  
  "A parent must not be separated from her offspring," said Richard; "henceforth, Ellen, that
      infant must be nurtured by thee."  
  "Oh! good, generous friend, my more than brother!" exclaimed Ellen, with an ebullition of
      feeling that might almost be termed a wild paroxysm of joy; and she pressed the infant to her
      bosom.  
  "Richard," said Mr. Monroe, "you possess the noblest soul that ever yet blessed or adorned a
      human being."  
  Marian stooped over the bed, apparently to caress the sleeping infant, but in reality to
      whisper these words in Ellen's ears:—"Fear nothing: I was sent to fetch the child; and Mr.
      Wentworth will keep your secret inviolably."  
  Ellen cast a look of profound gratitude upon Marian; for this welcome announcement assured
      her that the surgeon would never admit the fact of possessing any clue, direct or indirect, to
      the father of the babe which she held in her arms.  
   Markham had himself been to see Mr. Wentworth, and had learnt that the father of
      the child was so far known that he had engaged to furnish the means for its support,—in a few
      minutes, we say, she turned to her father, and said: "Our benefactor's goodness deserves every
      explanation from us; tell him the extent of my misfortune—reveal to him the origin and cause
      of my shame—let nothing be concealed."  
  "Ellen," said Richard, "I know all! Forgive me, but I reached the door of your room when you
      were telling your sad tale to your father; and I paused—because I considered that it was
      improper to interrupt you at such a moment. And, if I overheard that affecting narrative, it
      was not a mean curiosity which made me stop to listen—it was the deep interest which I now
      more than ever feel in your behalf."  
  "And you do not despise me?" said Ellen, hanging down her head.  
  "Despise you!" ejaculated Richard, "I deeply sympathise with you! Oh, no! you are not
      criminal; you are unfortunate. Your soul is pure and spotless."  
  "But the world—what will the world think," said Ellen, "when I am seen with this babe in my
      arms?"  
  "The world has not treated you so well, Ellen," returned Markham, "that its smiles should be
      deeply valued. Let the world say what it will, it would be unnatural—inhuman—to separate a
      mother from her child; unless, indeed," he added, "it is your desire that that innocent should
      be nursed among strangers."  
  "Oh, no—no!" exclaimed Ellen. "But my unhappy situation shall not menace your tranquillity;
      nor shall the tongue of scandal gather food from the fact of the residence of an unwedded
      mother beneath your roof. I will retire, with my father, to some secluded spot——"  
  "Ellen," interrupted Markham, "were I to permit that arrangement, it would seem as if I were
      not sincere in the interest and commiseration, instead of the blame, which I ere now expressed
      concerning you. No: unless you and your father be wearied of the monotonous life which you
      lead with me, here will you both continue to dwell; and let the world indulge in its idle
      comments as it will."  
  "Your benevolence finds a reason for every good deed which you practise," said Ellen. "Ah!
      Richard, you should have been born a prince, with a princely fortune: how many thousands would
      then have been benefited by your boundless philanthropy."  
  "My own misfortunes have taught me to feel for those of others," answered Richard; "and if
      the world were more anxious than it is to substitute sympathy for vituperation, society would
      not be the compound of selfishness, slander, envy, and malignity, that it now is."  
  "It is settled, then, Richard," murmured Ellen, "that my babe shall henceforth experience a
      mother's care!"  
  And Ellen covered her child with kisses and with tears.  
  At that moment the infant awoke; and a smile played over its innocent countenance.  
  Ellen pressed it more closely and more fondly to her bosom.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXI. HIS CHILD!  
  MR. GREENWOOD was sitting in his study,—the handsomely fitted-up room which we have before
      described,—the same morning on which the babe was restored to its mother, through the
      admirable feeling of Richard Markham.  
  Mr. Greenwood was studying speeches for the ensuing session of Parliament. He employed two
      secretaries who composed his orations; one did the dry details, and the other the declamatory
      and rhetorical portions. Each received thirty shillings a week, and worked from nine in the
      morning until nine at night, with half an hour three times a day for meals—which said meals
      were enjoyed at their own expense. And then Mr. Greenwood hoped to reap all the honours
      resulting from this drudgery on the part of his clerks.  
  The studies of the Member of Parliament were interrupted by the introduction of Mr. Arthur
      Chichester.  
  "I am off to France to-morrow," said this gentleman, throwing himself lazily upon a sofa;
      "and I called to see if I could do any thing for you on that side of the water."  
  "No, nothing," answered Greenwood. "Do you propose to make a long stay in France?"  
  "I shall honour Paris with my presence for about a month," said Chichester.  
  "During which time," added Greenwood, with a smile, "you will contrive to get rid of all the
      money which Mrs. Viola Chichester so generously supplied."  
  "Generously indeed!" said Chichester, laughing heartily. "So far from thinking of running
      through the money, I hope to double it. Although the public gambling-houses have been
      abolished in France, there is plenty of play at the private clubs. But you must not imagine
      that I have a perfect fortune in my possession: the means adopted to obtain the cash cost a
      mint of money: then were five hundred pounds to Tomlinson for his assistance; five hundred to
      you for your aid, advice, and advances—(there is a splendid alliteration for you!)—and three
      hundred to poor Anthony Tidkins."  
  "Poor indeed!" ejaculated Greenwood. "According to what you told me, the miserable wretch
      must be in a blessed state of pecuniary nudity."  
  "It was perfectly true," said Chichester. "When he came to meet me and Tomlinson on the
      night that Viola was to be released, in the dark alley adjoining his house, he was like a
      furious hyena. It seems that he had awoke up ten minutes before the hour appointed for our
      meeting, and then discovered his loss as I before described it to you."  
  "I should not like to have such a man as my enemy," observed Greenwood, carelessly.  
  "Nor I either. Bless me, how he did swear! I never heard such imprecations come from a human
      being's mouth before. He vowed that he would undertake no other business, nor devote himself
      to any other pursuit, until he had traced the woman who had robbed him, and avenged himself
      upon her. Flaying alive, he said, was too good for her! Well, I gave him twenty pounds, poor
      devil, through good nature; and Tomlinson gave him ten through fear; for it appears that this
      Tidkins exercises some extraordinary influence over that cowardly stock-broker—"  
    
  "By no means. But he is a useful fellow, and one might want him again."  
  "True," said Greenwood: "he is one of the necessary implements which men of the world must
      make use of at times, to carve out their way to fortune. Hare you heard any thing of your
      beloved wife?"  
  "Nothing more than what I have already told you," answered Chichester. "She has given up her
      abode at the Cambridge Heath gate, and taken apartments at a house in the very heart of the
      City, and where there are plenty of other lodgers. She is determined to be secure. However,"
      continued Chichester, with a smile, "so long as she holds her tongue about that little
      matter—which she seems inclined to do—she need not fear any further molestation from me."  
  "I question whether you would have released her that evening, had she not made her escape,"
      said Greenwood.  
  "Oh, indeed I should," returned Chichester; "I did not wish to push things too far; and I
      really believe that another week's confinement in that terrible place, which I have described
      to you, would have turned her mad in reality. Then again, I should have been afraid of that
      cowardly, snivelling fool, Tomlinson, who insisted upon accompanying me to ensure her release.
      That man has every inclination to be a downright rogue; but he lacks the courage."  
  "Have you seen your friend Harborough lately?" inquired Greenwood.  
  "To tell you the truth, he is going with me on my present expedition to Paris. His name, you
      know, sounds well: Sir Rupert Harborough, Bart., son-in-law of Lord Tremordyn,—eh?"  
  "His name must be somewhat worn out, I should imagine," observed Greenwood, playing with his
      watch-chain. "Have you seen Lady Cecilia?"  
  "No: she has her suite of apartments, and Sir Rupert has his—they do not interfere with each
      other. Sir Rupert, however, notices that Lady Cecilia has a great many visitors of the male
      sex; and amongst others, an officer of the grenadier guards, seven feet seven inches high,
      including his bear-skin cap."  
  "Indeed! Lady Cecilia is then becoming a confirmed demirep," observed Greenwood, without
      pausing to think who helped to make her so.  
  "There is no doubt of that," said Chichester. "But you seem up to your neck in business as
      usual."  
  "Yes: I am busily engaged in behalf of the Tory party," answered Greenwood. "The future
      Premier has great confidence in me. I have bought him over seven votes from the Whig side
      during the recess; and the moment the Tories succeed to power, I shall be rewarded with a
      baronetcy."  
  "You are making your way famously in the world," said Chichester, rising to leave.  
  "Pretty well—pretty well," returned Greenwood, with a complacent smile.  
  Chichester then shook hands with his friend, and departed.  
  Half an hour elapsed, during which Mr. Greenwood pursued his studies, when he was again
      interrupted by the entrance of a visitor.  
  This time it was Mr. Tomlinson, the stock-broker.  
  After having transacted a little pecuniary business together, Greenwood said, "What have you
      done with the old man?"  
  "I have taken a lodging for him in an obscure street of Bethnal Green, and there he is
      residing," answered Tomlinson.  
  "My plan was better," observed Greenwood, dogmatically: "you should have had him locked up
      in one of Tidkins's subterranean cells, and allowed three or four shillings a week for his
      maintenance."  
  "Impossible!" cried Tomlinson, indignantly. "I could never have acted so unmanly—so
      ungrateful—so atrocious a part."  
  "Well, just as you please," returned the Member of Parliament: "of course, you know
      best."  
  "We will not discuss that point," said Tomlinson.  
  "That is precisely what I said some time since to a deputation from the free and independent
      electors of Rottenborough, when they sent to remonstrate with me on a certain portion of my
      parliamentary conduct," observed Mr. Greenwood.  
  At this moment Lafleur entered and whispered something in his master's ear.  
  Tomlinson took his leave, and the valet proceeded to admit Marian into the presence of his
      master.  
  "Ah!" exclaimed Mr. Greenwood: "any thing wrong, Marian?"  
  "That may be according to the light in which you view the news I am come to communicate,
      sir," replied the servant. "In a word, Miss Monroe's father and Mr. Markham have discovered
      all."  
  "All! no—not   all  !" cried Greenwood, turning deadly pale; "surely Ellen could
      not——"  
  "When I said   all  , sir," replied Marian, "I was wrong. Mr. Monroe and my master have
      discovered that Miss Ellen is a mother; and her child is now with her."  
  "What! at Markham Place?" demanded Greenwood.  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "And is it known also who—what person—the father, I mean——"  
  "Miss Ellen has maintained   that   a profound secret, sir," said Marian.  
  "Thank heaven!" ejaculated Greenwood, now breathing freely. "But Mr. Wentworth—the
      surgeon——"  
  "He has also promised to remain dumb relative to what little he knows. You are best aware,
      sir, whether Miss Monroe has studied your wishes, or your interests, in remaining silent
      herself relative to you, and in recommending Mr. Wentworth, through me, to say nothing that
      may prove that she is really acquainted with the father of her child."  
  "But how was the discovery made? Tell me all," exclaimed Greenwood impatiently.  
  "The explanation is short. Mr. Wentworth sent a note relative to the health of the infant,
      last evening, to Miss Monroe; and she inadvertently left it upon the table in the same room
      where her father was sitting."  
  "And her father—and Richard—Mr. Markham, I mean," said Greenwood, "are acquainted but with
      the bare fact that she is a mother?"  
  "That is all, sir. But, oh! if you only knew the excuse that Miss Ellen made to avoid
      additional explanations," continued Marian, "you yourself—yes, you, sir, would be
      affected."  
  "What was that excuse?" demanded Greenwood.  
  "I can scarcely believe for one moment that it was true," said Marian, musing, rather than
      replying to his question.  
  "But what was it?" cried the Member of Parliament, impatiently.  
   said that, prompted by despair, she had sold her virtue to one whom she knew
      not—whom she had never seen before nor since."  
  "Ah! she said   that  ," murmured Greenwood. "And were her father and your master
      satisfied?"  
  "The old man wept well-nigh to break his heart, and Mr. Markham said that henceforth the
      child should stay with its mother in his house. Oh! sir, there lives not a man of nobler
      disposition than my master: he is all that is generous, humane, liberal, and upright!"  
  Mr. Greenwood turned aside, and appeared to contemplate some papers with deep interest for
      nearly a minute; and then he passed a handkerchief rapidly over his face.  
  Marian thought, as she afterwards informed Ellen, that he wiped tears from his eyes!  
  He made no reply, however, to her observations; but rang the bell for his French valet.  
  When Lafleur entered the room, Mr. Greenwood said, "You will proceed immediately to the
      abode of Mr. Wentworth, at Holloway: you will hand him from me this bank-note for fifty
      pounds; and you will say to him these words: '  As the child has been removed through an
       unforeseen occurrence from your care, its father sends you this as a small token of his
       gratitude for the kindness you have manifested towards it; and he hopes that, should you be
       questioned upon the subject, you will not reveal the fact that you ever had the slightest
       communication from its father.  ' Go—and return quickly."  
  Lafleur received the bank-note, bowed, and left the room.  
  "You can inform Miss Monroe of the step which I have thus taken to ensure the surgeon's
      secrecy," said Greenwood, addressing himself to Marian.  
  "I shall not fail to do so, sir," answered the servant.  
  She then withdrew.  
  When the door closed behind her, Greenwood threw himself back in his chair, murmuring, "My
      child beneath Richard's roof!"  
  
  CHAPTER CXXII. A CHANGE OF FORTUNE.  
  IT was about three o'clock in the afternoon that the Earl of Warrington alighted from his
      horse at the door of Mrs. Arlington's residence in Dover Street.  
  Giving his horse in charge to his mounted groom, the nobleman entered the dwelling.  
  The Enchantress received him in the drawing-room; but, to her surprise, the air of the earl
      was cold and formal.  
  He seated himself in a chair at a distance from the sofa which Diana occupied; and for some
      moments he uttered not a word.  
  A sentiment of pride prevented her from saying any thing to elicit an explanation of his
      ceremonial manner, because she was not aware that she was guilty of a fault meriting such
      treatment.  
  At length that silence, most embarrassing to both, was broken by the earl.  
  "Diana," he said, "we must separate. You have conducted yourself in a manner that has made
      me the laughing-stock of all who know me."  
  "My lord!" exclaimed Diana, perfectly astonished at this accusation; "you must have been
      misinformed; or you are bantering me."  
  "Neither the one nor the other," replied the earl. "You may probably conceive whether I am
      inclined to jest, when I state that your kind consideration towards Sir Rupert Harborough has
      reached my ears."  
  "Indeed, my lord!" cried Diana. "I do not attempt to deny that I forwarded, anonymously, to
      Sir Rupert Harborough a sum of money to extricate him from a fearful embarrassment."  
  "It would be unmanly in me to do more than remind you whence came that money which you could
      afford to fling away upon an unprincipled profligate," said the Earl of Warrington; "at the
      same time, you cannot suppose that it is pleasant to my feelings to learn that the world makes
      itself merry at my expense."  
  "Your lordship is aware that I am the last person in existence to do aught to occasion you
      the slightest uneasiness. Perhaps I was wrong——"  
  "You cannot, with your good sense, think otherwise. But let us not dispute upon the point:
      the thing is done, and cannot be recalled; but its effect is fatal to our connection."  
  "Your lordship does not mean——"  
  "I mean that we must separate, Diana," interrupted the nobleman, firmly.  
  "Is my fault irreparable in your eyes?" asked the Enchantress, tears trickling down her
      cheeks.  
  "No man can endure ridicule—and I am particularly sensitive in that respect."  
  "But where did you learn that such was the result of my foolish kindness?" said Diana,
      almost bewildered by the suddenness with which this blow had come upon her.  
  "I will give you every explanation you require, as in duty bound," replied the earl.
      "Captain Fitzhardinge, an officer in the Grenadier Guards, is an acquaintance of mine. He is a
      visitor at the house of Sir Rupert Harborough; and last evening Lady Cecilia Harborough told
      him what she called a   capital anecdote   of how she had cheated her husband out of a
      thousand pounds. Then, it appears, they laughed heartily at this   excellent joke  ; and
      Lady Cecilia proceeded to inform him that she had discovered whence the handsome subsidy
      emanated. She concluded, in terms more galling than polite, by ridiculing the Earl of
      Warrington, who was foolish enough to supply Mrs. Arlington so munificently with money, that
      she was enabled to spare some for her ancient lovers. You have asked me for the plain truth,
      and I have told it, as Captain Fitzhardinge stated it to me."  
  "And thus a trivial indiscretion on my part has created all this mischief," sobbed the
      Enchantress.  
  "You have acted most unwisely, Diana: I will not go so far as to say that you must have had
      some particular motive in forwarding that money to one who——"  
  "Heaven knows the purity of my motive!" exclaimed Diana, wiping away her tears, and glancing
      proudly towards the nobleman.  
  "The world will scarcely admit that purity of motive in such a case was possible. Consider
      the inferences that must be drawn——"  
  "And do you, my lord, believe that any unworthy reason of that kind led me to assist Sir
      Rupert Harborough?" demanded the Enchantress.  
  "If I may judge by your outward conduct towards me, I should give a decided negative in
      reply to your question. But we should no longer be happy in each other's society, while the
      least ground for unpleasant suspicions existed. We will, then, separate—but separate as good
      friends."  
   pride dyeing her cheeks, while she conquered the emotions that rose in her
      bosom.  
  "The lease of this house, and every thing it contains, are yours," continued the earl, after
      a moment's pause: "in this pocket-book there is a cheque——"  
  "No, my lord," interrupted Diana; "your bounty has already done much for me—more than you
      seem to think I have deserved: I cannot accept another favour at your lordship's hands."  
  The Earl of Warrington was struck by this answer, which proved that his mistress was not
      selfish; and for a few moments he was upon the point of making overtures for a
      reconciliation.  
  But the dread of ridicule—the fear of being laughed at as a man who kept a mistress for the
      benefit of others—the horror of being made the laughing-stock of all the rakes and demireps in
      London, smothered the lenient feelings that had awoke in his breast.  
  "You refuse to accept this token of my friendship, Diana?" he said.  
  "I must beg most respectfully to decline it, my lord—with fervent gratitude, nevertheless,
      for your generosity."  
  Again the earl wavered.  
  He looked at that beautiful woman who had been so charming and fascinating a companion,—who
      had advised him as a faithful friend in various matters upon which he had consulted her,—and
      who, to all appearances, had conducted herself so well towards him, save in this one
      instance;—he gazed upon her for a few moments, and his stern resolves melted rapidly away.  
  "Diana," he said, "we——"  
  At that moment the sounds of voices in the street caused him to turn his head towards the
      window; and he perceived Captain Fitzhardinge and another gentleman riding by on
      horseback.  
  They were laughing heartily, and gazing towards the house.  
  The Earl of Warrington's sensitive mind instantly suggested to him the idea that the
      anecdote of the thousand pounds was being again retailed, and most probably accompanied by the
      intimation that   that was the house of the complaisant Earl of Warrington's
      mistress  !  
  The Enchantress, with that keen perception which characterises woman, had seen all that was
      passing in the earl's mind,—had observed him waver   twice  , and had felt convinced on
      the second occasion that he would court a reconciliation.  
  But when those voices and that hearty laughter from the street fell upon her ears, and when
      she saw the blood rush to the earl's countenance as he glanced in that direction, she knew
      that all was over.  
  The earl rose and said, "Give me your hand, Diana: we will part, as I said, good friends;
      and remember that I shall always be ready to serve you. Farewell!"  
  "Farewell, my lord," returned Mrs. Arlington, extending her hand, which the nobleman pressed
      with lingering tenderness.  
  Then, afraid of another access of weakness, the Earl of Warrington wrung her hand warmly,
      and precipitated himself from the room.  
  The Enchantress hurried to the window, concealed herself behind the curtain, and watched him
      as he mounted his horse to depart.  
  He did not glance once upwards to the window: perhaps he knew that she was there!  
  And yet her pride prompted her to conceal herself in that manner.  
  When he was out of sight she threw herself upon the sofa and wept.  
  "Oh! if I had but said one word when his hand pressed mine," she exclaimed, "I might still
      have retained him! He is gone!—my best, my only friend!"  
  But Diana was not a woman to give way to grief for any length of time. She possessed great
      mental fortitude, which, though subdued for a short space, soon rose predominant over this
      cruel affliction.  
  She then began to reflect upon her position.  
  She had a house beautifully furnished; and she possessed a considerable sum of
         ready   money. She had therefore no disquietude for the present, and but little
      apprehension for the future; for she knew that her personal beauty and mental qualifications
      would at any moment bring another lover to her feet.  
  But she seriously thought of renouncing the species of life to which she had for some years
      been devoted: she longed to live independently and respectably.  
  In this frame of mind she passed the remainder of the day, pondering upon a variety of plans
      in accordance with her new desire.  
  She retired early to rest; but, not feeling an inclination to sleep, she amused herself with
      a book. The candle stood upon a table by the side of the bed; and Diana, luxuriously propped
      up by the downy pillows, culled the choicest flowers from Byron's miscellaneous poetic
      wreath.  
  An hour elapsed; and at length she grew sleepy. The book fell from her hand, and her
      eye-lids closed.  
  Then she remembered no more until she was suddenly aroused by a sensation of acute pain: she
      started up, and found the bed enveloped in flames.  
  She sprang upon the floor; but her night-dress was on fire:—she threw herself on the carpet,
      and rolled over and over in terrible agony, piercing screams issuing from her lips.  
  Those screams were echoed by loud cries of "Fire!" from the street; and then there was a
      rush of footsteps upon the stairs.  
  The door of the chamber was forced open; and Diana was caught up in the arms of a policeman,
      who had effected an entry into the house through the ground-floor windows.  
  She was carried in a state of insensibility down into the parlour, where a cloak was hastily
      thrown over her, and she was conveyed to a neighbouring hotel. Fortunately a medical man was
      passing at the moment; and he tendered his aid.  
  Meantime the fire spread with astonishing rapidity. The servants were extricated from the
      burning pile; but little property was saved.  
  A considerable time elapsed before the engines arrived; and when they did reach the spot, an
      adequate supply of water could not be procured, as the springs were ice-bound by the
      frost.  
  An immense crowd collected in the street; and all was bustle or curiosity.  
  The broad red flames shot upward with a roar like that of a furnace: the scene for a great
      distance round was as light as noon-day; and the heavens immediately above appeared to be on
      fire.  
  At one time the neighbouring houses were endangered; but suddenly the roof of the burning
      tenement fell in with a terrific crash; and then the conflagration seemed smothered.  
  But in a few minutes the flame shot upwards once more; and another hour elapsed ere it was
      completely subdued.  
   Mrs. Arlington's property was not insured, and that the lady herself lay in a
      most precarious state at the hotel to which she had been conveyed.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXIII. ARISTOCRATIC MORALS.  
  IT was still dark, though past seven o'clock, on the morning which succeeded the fire, when
      a somewhat strange scene occurred at the house of Sir Rupert Harborough in Tavistock
      Square.  
  The baronet, in his slippers and dressing-gown, cautiously descended the stairs, guiding
      himself with his left hand placed upon the balustrade, and conducting a young female with his
      right.  
  They maintained a profound silence, and stole down so carefully that it was easy to perceive
      they were fearful of alarming the household.  
  But while he was still descending the stairs, leading the young female, who was fully
      dressed even to her bonnet and shawl, the following thoughts passed rapidly through the mind
      of the baronet.  
  "After all, it is absurd for me to take this trouble to get my new mistress secretly out of
      the house. Why should she not walk boldly in and out, night or day, I wonder? 'Pon my honour,
      I have a great mind that she should! But, no—whatever agreement exists between me and Lady
      Cecilia, a certain degree of decency must be observed before the servants, and for the sake of
      one's character with the neighbours. After all, prudence is perhaps the best system."  
  His thoughts were at this moment interrupted by steps upon the stairs, which evidently were
      not the echoes of those of himself and his paramour.  
  He paused and listened.  
  Those steps were descending with great apparent caution, and yet a little more heavily than
      was quite consistent with entire secrecy.  
  The baronet led his mistress hastily after him, crossed the hall, and then drew her along
      with him into an obscure corner near the front-door.  
  "Silence, Caroline—silence," he whispered: "it is most likely the housemaid."  
  The baronet and his mistress accordingly remained as quiet as mice in the corner where they
      were concealed.  
  Meantime the steps gradually drew nearer and nearer; and now and then a low and suppressed
      whisper on the stairs met the baronet's ears.  
  A vague suspicion that some adventure, which those who were interested in it were anxious to
      conduct with as much secrecy as possible, was in progress, now entered the mind of Sir Rupert
      Harborough. He accordingly became all attention.  
  And now the steps ceased to echo upon the stairs, but advanced towards the front door.  
  The hall was pitch-dark; but the baronet was satisfied that two persons—a male and
      female—were the actors in the proceeding which now interested him; and all doubt on this head
      was banished from his mind when they halted within a few feet of the corner where he and his
      mistress were concealed.  
  Then the whispering between the two persons whose conduct he was watching re-commenced.  
  "Farewell, dearest Cecilia," said the low and subdued voice of a man.  
  "Farewell, beloved Fitzhardinge," answered another voice, with whose intonation, in spite of
      the whisper in which it spoke, the baronet was full well acquainted.  
  Then there was the billing murmur of kisses, which continued for some moments.  
  "When shall we meet again, dearest?" demanded Fitzhardinge, still in the same low tone.  
  "To-night—at the usual hour I will admit you," returned Lady Cecilia. "Sir Rupert goes to
      France to-night with his splendid friend Chichester."  
  "Thank heaven for that blessing!" said the Grenadier Guardsman. "And now, adieu, sweet
      Cecilia, until this evening! But, tell me, before I depart—shall I always find you the same
      warm, loving, devoted, fond creature you now are?"  
  "Always—always to   you  ," was the murmuring reply.  
  Then kisses were exchanged again.  
  "And am I indeed the first whom you have ever really loved? am I the only one who has ever
      tasted the pleasures of heaven in your arms, save your husband?" continued the officer,
      intoxicated with the reminiscences of the night of bliss which he had enjoyed with his
      paramour: "Oh! tell me so once again—only once!"  
  "You know that you alone could have tempted me to weakness, Fitzhardinge," answered the
      fair, but guilty patrician lady: "you alone could have induced me to forget my marriage
      vows!"  
  "Now I shall depart happy, my beloved Cecilia," said the officer; and again he imprinted
      burning kisses upon the lady's lips.  
  He then turned towards the front-door, and endeavoured to remove the chain: but it had
      become entangled with the key in some way or another; and he could not detach it.  
  "What is the matter?" inquired Cecilia, anxiously.  
  "This infernal chain is fast," answered the officer; "and all I can do will not move
      it."  
  "Let me try," said the lady; but her attempt was as vain as that of her lover.  
  "What is to be done?" asked Fitzhardinge.  
  "God knows!" returned Cecilia; "and it is growing late! In half-an-hour it will be
      day-light. Besides, the servants will be about presently."  
  "The devil!" said the officer, impatiently.  
  "Stay," whispered Lady Cecilia: "I will go to the kitchen and obtain a light. Do not move
      from this spot: I will not be a moment."  
  She then glided away; and the officer remained at his post as motionless and as silent as a
      statue, for fear of alarming the inmates of the house. His thoughts were not, however, of the
      most pleasureable kind; and during the two minutes that Lady Cecilia was absent, his mind
      rapidly pictured all the probable consequences of detection—exposure, ridicule, law-suit,
      damages, the Queen's Bench prison, the divorce of the lady, and the necessity under which he
      should labour of making her his own wife.  
  This gloomy perspective was suddenly enlivened by the gleam of a candle at the further end
      of the hall, and which was immediately followed by the appearance of Lady Cecilia, with the
      light.  
  Still the corner in which Sir Rupert and his paramour were concealed was veiled in
      obscurity; while the baronet obtained a full view of the tall Guardsman, dressed in plain
      clothes, standing within a couple of yards of his hiding-place, and also of Lady Cecilia,
      attired in a loose dressing-gown, as she advanced rapidly towards the place where her lover
      awaited her.  
   that nook which had hitherto remained buried in obscurity.  
  A scream escaped the lady's lips, and the candle fell from her hands.  
  Fortunately it was not extinguished: Sir Rupert rushed forward and caught it up in time to
      preserve the light.  
  Then, at a single glance, those four persons became aware of each other's position.  
  A loud laugh escaped the lips of the baronet.  
  "Sir," said the officer, advancing towards him, "for all our sakes avoid exposure; but if
      you require any satisfaction at my hands, you know who I am and where I reside."  
  "Satisfaction!" exclaimed Lady Cecilia, ironically; for she had recovered her presence of
      mind the moment she had perceived the equivocal position in which her husband himself was
      placed in respect to the female who stood quivering and quaking behind him: "what satisfaction
      can Sir Rupert Harborough require, when he admits such a creature as that into his house?"  
  And she pointed with a disdain and a disgust by no means affected, towards her husband's
      paramour.  
  "Creature indeed!" cried the young woman, now irritated and excited in her turn: "I think I
      am as honest as you, my lady, at all events."  
  "Wretch!" murmured Cecilia between her teeth, as if the sight of the   creature  
      filled her with abhorrence and loathing.  
  Ah! haughty lady! thou couldst thyself sin through lust: but thou couldst not brook the
      sight of one who sinned for bread!  
  The young woman, over-awed by the air of insuperable disgust which marked the proud
      patrician at that moment, recoiled from her presence and burst into tears.  
  "Come, enough of this folly," said Sir Rupert, impatiently: "we shall have the servants here
      in a moment. Perhaps you and this gentleman," he continued, "will step into that room for a
      moment, while I open the door for my little companion here."  
  Lady Cecilia tossed her head disdainfully, darted a look of sovereign contempt upon the
      abashed Caroline, and beckoned Captain Fitzhardinge to follow her into the adjacent
      parlour.  
  Sir Rupert retained the light. He opened the door, the chain of which had only become
      entangled round the key, and dismissed his paramour, who was delighted to escape from that
      house where the terrible looks of the lady had so disconcerted her.  
  The baronet then repaired to the parlour, and, having locked the door to prevent the
      intrusion of the servants, threw himself upon the sofa.  
  "Well, on my honour!" he exclaimed, bursting into a loud fit of laughter, "this is one of
      the most pleasant adventures that ever I heard or read of—'pon my honour!"  
  "Have you requested me to wait here in order to contribute to your hilarity, sir?" demanded
      Captain Fitzhardinge, indignantly.  
  "My dear fellow," returned the baronet, "let us laugh in concert! Oh! I can assure you that
      you need fear no law-suits nor pistols from me!"  
  "  Fear  , sir!" ejaculated the Guardsman: "I do not understand the word."  
  "Well—  expect  , then, if that will suit you better, my dear captain," continued Sir
      Rupert Harborough. "You see that my wife and myself act as we please, independently of each
      other."  
  "Sir Rupert!" exclaimed Cecilia, who was by no means anxious that her lover should be made
      acquainted with the terms of the agreement into which she and her husband had entered a short
      time previously, and the nature of which the reader will remember.  
  "My dear Cecilia," observed the baronet, "is it not much better that your   friend  
      should be made acquainted with the grounds on which you have admitted him as your sworn knight
      and only love?"  
  "Cease this bantering, sir," cried Captain Fitzhardinge. "Have I not already said that I am
      willing to give you any satisfaction which you may require?"  
  "And must I again tell you, my dear fellow," returned the baronet, with an affectation of
      familiarity, which only made his words the more bitter,—"must I again tell you that I require
      no satisfaction—that I have none to ask, and you none to give? But I cannot allow you to
      consider me a grovelling coward:—I must explain to you the grounds on which my forbearance is
      based."  
  "Proceed, sir," said Captain Fitzhardinge, coolly.  
  "You will then allow me to retire to my own room?" exclaimed Lady Cecilia, rising from the
      chair in which she had thrown herself.  
  "No, my dear," said the baronet, gently forcing her back into her seat: "you must remain to
      corroborate the truth of what I am about to state to this gentleman."  
  Lady Cecilia resumed the chair from which she had risen, and made no reply.  
  "In one word, Captain Fitzhardinge," continued the baronet, "there is a mutual understanding
      between my wife and myself, that we shall follow our own inclinations, whims, and caprices,
      without reference to the ties which bind us, or the vows which we pledged at church some years
      ago. All this may seem very strange: it is nevertheless true. Therefore, I have no more right
      to quarrel with Lady Cecilia on   your   account, than she has to abuse me on account of
      that young person whom you saw in the house just now. Now, then, my dear captain," continued
      the baronet, his tone again becoming bitterly ironical, "you may at your ease congratulate
      yourself upon being the only person that Lady Cecilia has ever loved, and the only one on whom
      she has ever bestowed her favours with the exception of her husband."  
  "Then I am to understand, sir," said the officer, perfectly astounded at the turn which the
      affair had taken, "that you do not consider yourself offended or aggrieved by the—the——"  
  "Not a whit!" ejaculated the baronet. "On the contrary—I have no doubt we shall be excellent
      friends in future."  
  The captain bowed, and rose to depart.  
  Sir Rupert unlocked and opened the door for him, and then ushered him, with affected
      politeness, out of the house.  
  When he returned to the parlour, he found Lady Cecilia red with indignation.  
  "What means this scene, Sir Rupert," she said, "after our mutual compact?"  
  "My dear," answered the baronet, calmly, "you treated my little friend in a most unpleasant
      manner, and I thought myself justified in retaliating to a certain extent. Besides, I was
      compelled to give an explanation to a man who would have otherwise looked upon me as a coward
      for failing to demand satisfaction of him."  
    
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Never fear," said the baronet. "Confiding in your sweet assurances that he alone has ever
      possessed your love, and that he alone, save your husband, has ever been blest with the proofs
      of that affection, he will return ere long to your arms. Besides, am I not going to France
      to-night with my splendid friend Chichester?"  
  "This is cruel, Sir Rupert. If an accident made you acquainted with the conversation which
      passed between us——"  
  "An accident indeed!" interrupted Sir Rupert Harborough, laughing affectedly. "'Pon my
      honour, the entire adventure was one of the drollest that ever occurred! But let us say no
      more upon the subject! Adhere to the compact on your side, and insult not   my  
      friends——"  
  "But a prostitute in my house!" ejaculated Lady Cecilia, still loathing the idea.  
  "And my wife's paramour in my house!" cried Sir Rupert.  
  "Oh! there is something refined in an amour with one's equal," said Lady Cecilia: "but a
      wretch of that description——"  
  "Enough of this!" cried the baronet. "The servants are already about: let us each retire to
      our own rooms."  
  And this suggestion was immediately adopted.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXIV. THE INTRIGUES OF A DEMIREP.  
  LADY Cecilia retired to her own chamber, locked the door, threw herself upon the bed, and
      burst into tears.  
  Oh! at that moment how the hated her husband;—how she hated herself!  
  She wept not in regret of her evil ways: she poured forth tears of spite when she thought of
      the opinion that her new lover must form of her, after the explanation given by Sir
      Rupert.  
  For Captain Fitzhardinge was rich and confiding; and the fair patrician had calculated upon
      rendering him subservient alike to her necessities and her licentiousness.  
   upon him those favours that were alienated from her husband by a formal compact?
      What opinion could he entertain of a woman who sinned deliberately by virtue of an
      understanding with him whom she had sworn to respect and obey?  
  It could not be supposed that the morality of Captain Fitzhardinge was of a very elevated
      nature: but in the occurrence of that morning there was something calculated to shock the mind
      the least delicate—the least refined.  
  Yea—Lady Cecilia wept; for she thought of all this!  
  And then her rage against her husband knew no bounds.  
  "The wretch—the cowardly wretch!" she exclaimed aloud, as she almost gnashed her teeth with
      rage: "was he not born to be my ruin? From the moment that I saw him first until the present
      hour, has he not been an evil genius in my way? Yes—oh! yes: he is a demon sent to torture me
      in this world for my faults and failings! Seduced by him when I was very young, I might have
      been plunged into disgrace and infamy, had not my father purchased his consent to espouse me.
      Then the large sum that was paid to save my honour was squandered in the payment of his debts,
      or in ministering to his extravagances. Now, what is our position? what is   my  
      position? Shunned by my own father and mother, I am left dependent on him who knows not how to
      obtain enough for himself; or else I—I, the daughter of a peer, must sell myself to some Mr.
      Greenwood or Captain Fitzhardinge for the means to support my rank! Oh! it is atrocious: I
      begin to loathe myself! Would that I were the mistress of some wealthy man who would be
      constant and kind towards me, rather than the wife of this beggared baronet!"  
  Lady Cecilia rose from the bed, advanced towards the mirror, and smoothed her hair. Then she
      perceived that her eyes were red with weeping.  
  "Absurd!" she exclaimed, a contemptuous smile curling her lips: "why should I shed tears
      upon the past which no human power can recall? Rather let me avail myself of the present, and
      endeavour to provide for the future. Am I not young? and does not my glass tell me that I am
      beautiful? Even the immaculate—the taintless—the exemplary rector of Saint David's paid me a
      compliment on my good looks when I met him at Lady Marlborough's, a few days ago. Yes—and
      methought that if the most evangelical of evangelical clergymen of the Established Church
      could for a moment be moved by my smile,—if that admired preacher, who publicly avows that he
      refrains from marriage upon principle,—if that holy minister who is quoted as a pattern to his
      class, and an example for the whole world,—if   he   could whisper a word savouring of a
      compliment in my ear, and then seem ashamed of the moment of weakness into which his
      admiration had betrayed him;—if my charms could effect so great a miracle as this, what may
      they not do for me in helping me on to fortune?"  
  She paused and considered herself for some minutes in the glass opposite to her.  
  "Yes," she cried, again breaking silence, "I will no longer remain in the same house with my
      unprincipled and heartless husband: I will no longer breathe the tainted atmosphere which he
      inhabits. His very name is associated in my mind with forgery and felony! I will break the
      shackle which yet partially binds me to him; I will emancipate myself from the restraint and
      thraldom wherein I now exist. Fitzhardinge is rich and loving: perhaps he may still feel the
      influence of the silken chain which I threw around his heart. We will see! If he come gladly
      back to my feet, my aim is won: if not—well,"—and she smiled, complacently,—"there are others
      as rich, as handsome, and as easily enchained as he!"  
  Lady Cecilia proceeded to her desk and wrote the following note:—  
  
  "Come to me, dearest Fitzhardinge, at three precisely this afternoon: I have much to say
       respecting the specious falsehoods which Sir Rupert uttered this morning in order to conceal
       the natural cowardice of his disposition. He was afraid to involve himself in a quarrel with
       you; and he excused his unmanly forbearance by means of assertions that reflected upon me.
       Come, then, to me at three: I shall be alone, and at home only to you."  
  
  This note was immediately conveyed to Captain Fitzhardinge by Cecilia's lady's-maid, who was
      the confidant of her mistress's intrigues.  
  Having despatched her missive, the baronet's wife proceeded to the duties of the toilet.  
  This employment, breakfast, the newspaper, and a novel, wiled away the time until about one
      o'clock, when Lady Cecilia, having ascertained that her husband had gone out half an hour
      previously, descended to the drawing-room.  
  She was attired in a simple and unpretending manner; but then she knew that this style
      became her best.  
  She was determined to captivate that day; and certainly she had seldom appeared to greater
      advantage.  
  Her rich auburn hair,—of a hue as warm as the disposition which it characterised,—fell in
      long hyperion ringlets upon her sloping shoulders: her blue eyes were expressive of a feeling
      of languid voluptuousness; and her pure complexion was set off by the dark dress that she
      wore.  
  The time-piece upon the mantel had scarcely struck two, when a loud double-knock at the
      front-door resounded through the house.  
  Lady Cecilia started from her seat, for she had forgotten to instruct the servants "that she
      was only at home to Captain Fitzhardinge." But she was too late to remedy her neglect; the
      summons was already answered ere she had gained the landing on which the drawing-room
      opened.  
  She accordingly returned to the sofa, and composed herself to receive the visitor, whoever
      it might be.  
  In a few moments the servant announced the Earl of Warrington.  
  With this nobleman Lady Cecilia was only very slightly acquainted, she having met him on two
      or three occasions, some years previously, at her father's house.  
  "I must apologise, Lady Harborough, for this intrusion," said the earl; "but I trust to your
      kindness to pardon me in that respect, and to afford me a little information concerning a
      matter which has suddenly assumed an air of importance in my eyes."  
  "No apology is necessary for the honour which your lordship confers upon me by visiting my
      humble abode," answered Lady Cecilia; "and with regard to the subject to which your lordship
      alludes, I shall be happy to furnish any information in my power."  
   of a thousand pounds which was forwarded to Sir Rupert Harborough, and which
      your ladyship undertook to disburse for his advantage."  
  "Your lordship places the matter in as delicate a light as possible," said Lady Cecilia,
      affecting to laugh heartily in order to conceal the shame which she really experienced at this
      reference to her unworthy action; "but it was only a pleasant trick which I played Sir Rupert.
      The truth is, Sir Rupert is not the most generous of men towards his wife; and when I found
      that some honourable person was repaying him a debt contracted a long time previously, I
      thought that, as the amount fell so providentially into my hands, I could not do better than
      appropriate it to the liquidation of the arrears of pin-money due to me."  
  "Very just, madam," said the earl, forcing himself to smile at the incident which Lady
      Cecilia represented in the light of a venial little advantage taken by a wife against her
      husband. "I believe that the amount was forwarded anonymously?"  
  "To tell you the candid truth, my lord," answered Lady Cecilia, "the whole affair was so
      strange and romantic, that I kept, as a great curiosity, the letter which accompanied the
      bank-note. If you possess any interest in the matter——"  
  "Your ladyship   knows   that I am not seeking this information without   some  
      object," said the earl, emphatically. "Would it be indiscreet," he added, in a less serious
      tone, "to request a glimpse at that great curiosity?"  
  "Oh! by no means," returned Lady Cecilia, who affected to treat the whole matter as an
      excellent joke; then, rising from her seat, she hastened to her work-box, and in a few moments
      produced the letter. "It was not so scented with musk when I received it," she added,
      laughing; "but it was redolent of a far more grateful flavour—that of this world's
      mammon."  
  "I believe mammon is the deity whom we all more or less adore," observed the Earl of
      Warrington, gallantly taking up the tone of chit-chat, rather than formality, which Lady
      Cecilia endeavoured to infuse into the conversation: then, as he received the letter from her
      hand, he said, "May I be permitted to read it?"  
  "Oh! certainly, my lord: and, if you have any curiosity in the matter, you are welcome to
      retain it," answered Lady Cecilia.  
  "With your leave I will do so," said the earl.  
  "And now that I have replied to all your lordship's queries," continued Lady Cecilia, "may I
      ask one in my turn?"  
  The earl bowed, and smiled.  
  "Who was the indiscreet eave's-dropper or tale-bearer that gave your lordship the hint
      concerning this business?" asked the baronet's wife.  
  "Methinks that your ladyship has been at no pains to conceal the affair," said the earl:
      "and what hundreds have talked about cannot well be charged against an individual
      tale-bearer."  
  "Nay, my lord, I mentioned it but to two persons," exclaimed Cecilia; "the first was to Sir
      Rupert Harborough—in a moment of pique; and the other was to a—a—particular friend——"  
  "I am not indiscreet enough to ask for names," interrupted the earl, rising; and he hastened
      to take his leave, ere Lady Cecilia could reiterate her question relative to the person who
      had communicated to him the fact of the intercepted thousand pounds.  
  It was now nearly three o'clock; and Lady Cecilia again composed herself to receive Captain
      Fitzhardinge.  
  Punctual to the hour, that officer was introduced into the drawing-room.  
  But his manner, instead of being all love and tenderness, was simply polite and
      friendly.  
  "Fitzhardinge," said the lady, "I perceive that you have allowed yourself to be prejudiced
      against me."  
  "Not prejudiced, Lady Cecilia," answered the guardsman; "but I confess that I am no longer
      under the influence of a blind passion. The conduct of your husband this morning was that of a
      man who was acting consistently with the circumstances which he explained, and not that of an
      individual who was playing a part in order to disguise the innate cowardice of his
      disposition. No, Cecilia—your husband is not a coward—whatever else he may be! And now one
      word relative to myself. So long as I believed that you made to me, as a proof of love, the
      generous sacrifice of conjugal fidelity,—so long as I believed that an affection for me alone
      induced you to violate your marriage-vow,—then the dream was sweet, though not the less
      criminal! But when I discovered that you made no sacrifice to me,—that you came not to my arms
      warm with a love that trembled at detection, but secure in the existence of a heartless
      compact with your husband,—then my eyes were opened, and I saw that Lady Cecilia Harborough
      had risked nothing of all that she had pretended to risk—sacrificed nothing of all that she
      had affected to sacrifice—for the sake of Captain Fitzhardinge! Thus the delusion was
      destroyed; and although our amour might be based upon more impunity than I had ever conceived,
      it would be the less sweet! The charm—the spell is broken!"  
  "And have you come here to tell me all this—to insult me with your moralisings?" demanded
      Lady Cecilia, the fire of indignation and wounded pride displacing the languid voluptuousness
      which had at first reigned in the expression of her eyes.  
  "No! not to insult you, Cecilia," answered the officer; "but to explain in an open and
      candid manner the motive which leads me to say: '  Let us forget the past, as it regards
       each other!  '"  
  "Be it so," said Lady Cecilia, deeply humiliated, and now hating the handsome officer much
      more than she had ever liked him. "In that case, sir, we can have nothing more to say to each
      other."  
  Captain Fitzhardinge bowed, and withdrew.  
  Lady Cecilia fell back upon the sofa, murmuring, "Beaten—beaten! defeated in this hope!"  
  And tears came into her eyes.  
  But in a few moments she exclaimed, "How foolish is this grief! how useless this
      indignation! Sorrow and hatred are the consuming enemies of female beauty! Did I not say ere
      now that there were others in the world as rich, as handsome, and as confiding as Captain
      Fitzhardinge?"  
  As she uttered these words aloud, the haughty beauty wiped her eyes and composed her
      countenance.  
  She rose and advanced towards the mirror to assure herself that her appearance indicated
      naught of those tears which she had shed; and as she contemplated her features with a very
      pardonable pride, the reminiscence of the compliment which the clergyman of Saint David's had
      paid her flashed to her mind.  
   meaning,—then grew into a revelation of passion,—and was at length embodied into
      a perfect romance of love with all its enjoyments and blisses.  
  The ardent soul of that frail woman converted the immaculate clergyman into an admirer
      betrayed in an unguarded moment into a confession of love,—then changed him into a suitor
      kneeling at her feet,—and by rapid degrees carried him on, through all the mystic phases of
      passion, until he became a happy lover reclining on her bosom.  
  With a presumption which only characterises minds of her warm temperament and loose ideas of
      morality, Cecilia triumphed in the half-hour's impassioned reverie which succeeded the
      departure of Captain Fitzhardinge, over the ascetic virtue and self-denying integrity which
      public opinion ascribed to the rector of Saint David's.  
  Then, when some trifling incident aroused her from this wild and romantic dream, she did not
      smile at its folly—she regarded it as a species of inspiration prompting her in which
      direction to play the artillery of her charms.  
  "Yes," she exclaimed, musing aloud; "he once said, '  I never saw you look so well as you
       appear this evening:  '—these words shall be a motto to a new chapter in my life!"  
  And she smiled triumphantly as if her daring aim were already accomplished!  
  "Thirty-six years of age," she abruptly resumed her musings,—"wealthy—handsome—unmarried,
         from principle  ,"—and here an erratic smile of mingled satisfaction and irony played
      on her rosy lips,—"and yet fond of society, the Reverend Reginald Tracy must no longer be
      permitted to remain proof against woman's beauty—aye, and woman's wiles. Oh! no—he shall
      repeat to me, but far more tenderly, the words he uttered the other evening: his passing
      compliment shall become a permanent expression of his sentiments! But his character—his
      disposition? must I not study   them  ? If that be necessary, the task is ready to
      hand!"  
  She rose from the sofa, and having selected an ecclesiastical magazine from some books that
      stood upon a cheffonier, returned to her seat to peruse at leisure a sketch which the work
      contained of the character, ministry, and popularity of the rector of Saint David's.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXV. THE RECONCILIATION.  
  IN the meantime the Earl of Warrington drove to the hotel in Dover Street, where Diana
      Arlington lay; and, upon inquiry, he ascertained that a nurse and the medical attendant were
      with her.  
  He desired to be conducted to a private room, and then despatched the waiter to request the
      professional gentleman to step thither for a few moments.  
  "What name shall I say, sir?" asked the servant, who was unacquainted with the earl's
      person.  
  "It is needless to mention any name," replied the nobleman; "I shall not detain the
      gentleman five minutes."  
  The servant disappeared, and in a few moments returned, followed by the medical
      attendant.  
  The waiter introduced him into the apartment, and then withdrew.  
  "I believe, sir," said the earl, "that you are attending upon the lady who experienced so
      severe an accident last night?"  
  "I was by chance passing through Dover Street when the flames burst forth," was the reply:
      "and I gave an immediate alarm to the police. I remained upon the spot to ascertain if my
      professional services could be rendered available; and it was well that I did so."  
  "The lady then is much injured?" said the earl, in a tone expressive of emotion.  
  "Seriously injured," answered the surgeon; "and as I live at some distance from this
      neighbourhood, I considered it proper to remain with the patient all night. Indeed, I have not
      left her for a moment since the accident occurred."  
  "Your attention shall be nobly recompensed, sir," said the earl. "Here is my card, and I am
      your debtor."  
  The surgeon bowed low as his eye glanced upon the name of the individual in whose presence
      he stood.  
  "And now," continued the nobleman, "answer me one question—candidly and sincerely. Will your
      patient be scarred by the effects of the fire?"  
  "My lord, that is more than I can answer for," returned the surgeon. "Fortunately, medical
      assistance was rendered the moment after the accident occurred; and this circumstance should
      inspire great hope!"  
  "Then I   will   hope," said the earl. "How long an interval do you imagine must elapse
      ere she may be pronounced convalescent? Or rather, I should have asked, is she in any positive
      danger?"  
  "There is always danger—great danger in these cases, my lord. But, should the fever subside
      in a few days, I should recommend the removal of the patient to some quiet neighbourhood—afar
      from the bustle of the West End."  
  "You said that you yourself resided some distance from hence?" observed the earl, after a
      few moments' reflection.  
  "My abode is in Lower Holloway, my lord," answered the surgeon; "and my name is
      Wentworth."  
  "Holloway is quiet and retired," said the earl; "but is not the air too bleak there at this
      season?"  
  "It is pure and wholesome, my lord; and the spot is tranquil, and devoid of the bustle of
      crowds and the din of carriages."  
  "Wherever Mrs. Arlington may remain until her recovery," said the Earl, "she must receive
      all the attentions which can be lavished upon her; and in nothing must she be thwarted where
      gold can procure her the gratification of her wishes."  
  "I would offer to place my house at the lady's disposal, my lord—and the attention of Mrs.
      Wentworth would be unremitting—but——"  
  "Name the obstacle," said the earl. "Perhaps you consider that the position of the lady with
      regard to myself,—a position the nature of which you may have divined,—is somewhat too
      equivocal to permit your wife——"  
  "No, my lord; medical men have no scruples of that kind. I hesitated because I feared that
      my abode would be too humble——"  
   preserve her beauty,—for we are all mortal—and I confess to a weakness,—but no
      matter! Say—you will do your best!"  
  "My lord, I am poor, and struggling with the world," answered the surgeon, "and, I may say
      without vanity—because I possess certificates from eminent medical men under whom I have
      studied—that I am not ignorant of my profession. My lord, I have every inducement to devote
      all the knowledge I possess to the aim which you desire. My attentions shall be unwearied and
      unremitting; and if I succeed——"  
  "If you succeed in restoring her to me in that perfection of beauty which invested her when
      I took leave of her yesterday,—without a mark, without a scar,—your fortune shall be my care,
      and you will have no need to entertain anxiety relative to the future, with the Earl of
      Warrington as your patron."  
  "At present, my lord, all I can say is—  I will do my best  ," rejoined Mr.
      Wentworth.  
  "And at present I can ask no more," exclaimed the earl: then, after a moment's pause, he
      said, "May I be allowed to see your patient for a few moments?"  
  The surgeon hesitated.  
  "I know why you dislike this proposal," observed the nobleman: "you are afraid that, when I
      contemplate the altered countenance of that woman who was lately so beautiful, I shall despair
      of her complete cure."  
  "Such is, indeed, my impression," answered Mr. Wentworth. "Those symptoms and appearances
      which are most alarming to persons unacquainted with the medical art, are frequently the least
      causes of alarm to the professional man."  
  "Then let me   speak   to her, and not   see   her," said the earl.  
  "I understand your lordship: in a few minutes I will return."  
  And the surgeon withdrew.  
  During his absence the earl paced the room in an agitated and excited manner, which was
      quite inconsistent with the usual equanimity and even gravity of his temperament.  
  Ten minutes had elapsed when the surgeon came back.  
  "Will your lordship follow me?"  
  Mr. Wentworth led the way to the chamber in which Diana Arlington lay.  
  The shutters were closed, and the curtains were drawn around the bed: the room was nearly
      dark, a few straggling gleams of light alone forcing their way through the chinks in the
      shutters.  
  When the earl entered the apartment, the surgeon remained in the passage outside: the nurse
      had already been directed to retire for a short time.  
  The nobleman approached the bed, and seating himself in a chair by the side, said, "Diana,
      can you forgive me for my cruelty of yesterday?"  
  "I never entertained a feeling of resentment, my lord, and therefore have nothing to
      forgive," was the answer, delivered in a low and plaintive tone.  
  "I did you a serious wrong, Diana," continued the earl; "but I am not too proud to confess
      my error. I trembled at the idea of ridicule: hence the hastiness of my conduct. And then,
      there was a suspicion in my mind—a suspicion which made me uneasy, very uneasy—but which is
      now dispelled. I have read your letter which accompanied the bank-note addressed to Sir Rupert
      Harborough; and I am satisfied in respect to the integrity—nay, the generosity of your
      motives."  
  "It was kind of you, my lord, to take the steps necessary to reinstate me in your good
      opinion," murmured Diana from her couch, in a tone evidently subdued by deep emotion.  
  "There was no kindness in the performance of an act of justice," returned the earl. "When I
      read in this morning's newspaper the sad account of that terrible accident of last night, my
      heart smote me for my conduct towards you. Then I reflected upon all the happiness which I had
      enjoyed in your society, and I was moved—deeply, profoundly moved! I despatched a servant to
      this hotel to inquire if you were really so seriously injured as the journal represented; and
      he brought me back word that your life was no longer in positive danger, but——"  
  "But that I shall be a hideous object for the remainder of my days," added Diana, with
      somewhat of bitterness in her manner.  
  "God forbid!" cried the earl, energetically: "Mr. Wentworth seems to promise——"  
  "Alas! the medical art prompts its professors to console the mind in order to heal the body;
      but I am not foolish enough to yield to a hope so baseless!"  
  These words were uttered in a tone of the most profound melancholy.  
  "Diana, you   must   hope," exclaimed the Earl of Warrington: "you will recover—yes,
      you will recover; and even if a slight trace of this accident——"  
  "A slight trace!" almost screamed Diana—and the earl could hear her roll herself
      convulsively over on her pillow: "a slight trace, my lord! I shall be disfigured for life:
      nothing can save me! My countenance will be seared as with a red-hot-iron—my neck will be
      covered with deep scars—my arms, my entire body will be furrowed with crimson and purple
      marks! O God! it is hard to suffer thus!"  
  And then she burst into an agonising flood of tears.  
  The earl allowed her to weep without interruption: he knew that her mind would be relieved
      by that outpouring of feeling.  
  And he was right: in a few minutes she said, "Pardon me—I am weak, I am foolish. And now
      proceed to tell me how you became possessed of that note which I sent with the money to Sir
      Rupert Harborough."  
  The Earl of Warrington then related the particulars of his interview with Lady Cecilia.  
  "And now that I have done an act of justice, and convinced myself of the purity of the
      motives which induced you to act in the manner that created my displeasure," continued the
      earl, "let us talk of yourself. I have made arrangements with Mr. Wentworth which, I hope,
      will meet your approval and conduce to your benefit. When you can be removed with safety, you
      shall be conveyed from the bustle of an hotel in a crowded neighbourhood to the tranquil
      retirement of Mr. Wentworth's abode at Holloway. I am induced to place reliance upon the skill
      and talent of that man—I scarcely know why."  
  "Oh! yes—he is no doubt very clever," said the patient; "for his treatment of me speedily
      gave me relief from the acuteness of the agony which I at first experienced."  
  "Every thing shall be done to conduce to your comfort, Diana," resumed the nobleman. "My
      upholsterer shall send down to Mr. Wentworth's house the furniture that may be required for
      the rooms which you are to occupy; and my steward shall supply him with ample funds."  
  "How kind—how good you are," murmured Diana.  
   the earl, "until your recovery is announced to me—your complete recovery; and
      then——"  
  He checked himself; and there was a long silence.  
  Suddenly the earl arose.  
  "Farewell, Diana—my presence is not calculated to calm you," he exclaimed. "I shall now
      leave you—but, remember, I watch over you from a distance. Farewell!"  
  "Farewell—till we meet again," said Diana. "But—oh! how shall I dread that day! And—if my
      worst fears should be confirmed—if I really become the horrible, scarred, hideous object which
      I dread,—then—then we shall never meet more,—for I will fly from the world and bury myself in
      some deep solitude whither none who ever knew me in my bright days shall trace me!"  
  "You will not be forced to adopt such an alternative, Diana—believe me you will not!"
      exclaimed the earl. "At all events—let us hope,—let us   both   hope!"  
  The earl hastily withdrew.  
  In the passage he encountered the surgeon, to whom he reiterated his instructions relative
      to the attention to be shown towards the patient.  
  "Mr. Wentworth," he said, in an emphatic tone, "remember all that I have told you. Gold
      shall be placed at your disposal with no niggard hand; spare no expense! That lady's complete
      restoration to her pristine beauty is your care: think of naught save that one grand aim!"  
  "My lord," answered the surgeon, "I can only repeat the words I used just now—  I will do
       my best  !"  
  The earl pressed his hand warmly, and hurried away—more affected by the incidents of that
      day than he had been for many, many years.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXVI. THE RECTOR OF SAINT DAVID'S.  
  IT is not necessary to explain to our readers the precise locality of the splendid Chapel of
      Ease known by the name of Saint David's. Suffice it to say, that it is situate not a hundred
      miles from Russell or Tavistock Square; and that the clergyman attached to it at the period of
      which we are writing was the Rev. Reginald Tracy.  
  It was Sunday morning.  
  A crowd of well-dressed persons, of both sexes, poured into the chapel of Saint David's. The
      street was lined with carriages; and when each in its turn drew up at the door of the sacred
      edifice, the   élite   of the aristocracy might have been observed to alight and hasten
      to form part of the immense congregation assembled to hear the most popular preacher of the
      day.  
  The interior of the chapel was vast, and of a convenient oblong form. It was lofty, and
      beautifully fitted up. On three sides were large and roomy galleries, amphitheatrically
      arranged with pews. The magnificent organ stood in the gallery over the entrance; and at the
      further end was the communion-table. The pulpit, with its annexed reading-desk, stood a little
      in front of the altar, and facing the organ. The pews both of the galleries and the body of
      the church were provided with soft cushions; for this was a proprietary chapel, and there was
      but a slender accommodation for the poor. Indeed, this class occupied plain benches in the
      aisles, and were compelled to enter by a small side-door so that they might not mingle with
      the crowd of elegantly dressed ladies and fashionable gentlemen that poured into the chapel
      through the grand entrance in front.  
  A policeman maintained order at the side-door, which admitted the humbler classes; but two
      beadles, wearing huge cocked hats and ample blue cloaks bedizened with broad gold-lace, and
      holding gilt wands in their hands, cleared the way for the wealthy, the great, and the proud,
      who enjoyed the privilege of entrance by means of the front gates.  
  "This way, my lord. Pray step this way, my lady," said the polite beadles, in their blandest
      tones. "The pew-opener is in attendance, my lord. My lady, here is the hymn-book, which your
      ladyship commanded me to procure for your ladyship. My lord, take care of the step. This door,
      ladies, if you please. Gentlemen, this way, if you would be so condescending. Yes,
      sir—certainly, sir—the pew-opener will find   you   a seat, sir—immediately, sir. Ladies,
      this way is less crowded. You will find the left aisle comparatively empty. My lord, straight
      forward, if your lordship will be so good. Ladies, the pew-opener is in attendance. This way,
      ladies and gentlemen!"  
  And at the side-door the policeman might be heard vociferating in somewhat like the
      following manner:—  
  "Now, then, you young woman, where the deuce are you pushing to? Want to get a good place,
      eh? What! with sich a rag of a shawl as that there?—I'm afeard I can't admit you. Now, boy,
      stand back, or I'll show you the reason why. I say, old woman, you ain't wanted here; we
      doesn't take in vimen with red cloaks. You'd better go to the dissenting chapel round the
      corner, you had: that's good enow for you. Holloa! what's this mean? a sweep in his Sunday
      toggery. Come, come; that's rayther too strong, chummy. You toddle off, now. Here, young
      woman, you may come in; you may—'cos you're very pretty: that way, my dear. Holloa! here comes
      a feller without a nose. No—no—that won't do at no price; my orders is partickler; no von
      comes here vithout a nose. Vy, you'd frighten all the great ladies out o' their vits. They
      already complains of the riff-raff that comes to this here chapel; so we must try and keep it
         se  -lect—just like Gibbs's westry. Ha! ha! now then, who's that blaigaird a-talking
      so loud there? It's on'y me as can talk here at this door, 'cos I'm official—I am. This vay,
      young woman: push the door, my dear. Well, if you ain't married, I'm sure you ought to be.
      Now, then, who's that a guffawing like a rhinoceros? I'll clap a stopper on your mug, I will.
      Come, come; you go back, old chap: no workus-livery here; this is the wrong shop for the
      workus people; this is—I can tell yer. Vell, you're a genteel couple, I don't think—coming to
      a pro-pri-  ai  -tory chapel vithout no gloves, and fists as black as tinkers. Stand back
      there, boys, and let that young gal vith the yaller ribands come up: she's decent, she is.
      Yes, my dear,—you may go in, my dear. Now, then, stand back—no more comes in this mornin': the
      orgin's begun."  
  With these words the policeman thrust the poor people violently down the steps, entered the
      chapel, and closed the door in their faces.  
  The interior was crowded throughout; and it was very evident that curiosity and fashion,
      more than devotion, had congregated in that chapel the rank, wealth, and beauty that filled
      the pews below and above.  
   sung by a select corps of choristers and by twelve youths belonging to the
      school of a celebrated professor of Music for the Millions.  
  A venerable clergyman, with hair as white as his own surplice, occupied the reading-desk;
      and in a pew close by the pulpit, was the cynosure that attracted all eyes—the Rev. Reginald
      Tracy.  
  The tall commanding form of this clergyman would have rendered him conspicuous amongst the
      congregation, had no other circumstance tended to endow him with popularity. His countenance
      was eminently handsome: his high and open forehead was set off, but not shaded, by dark brown
      hair which curled naturally; his hazel eyes beamed with the fire of a brilliant intellect; his
      Roman nose, small mouth, and well-turned chin formed a profile at once pleasing and
      commanding; and his large well-curled whiskers, meeting beneath his chin, confirmed the manly
      beauty of that proud and imposing countenance.  
  There was a profound, but totally unassuming, sense of the solemnity of the scene and of the
      sanctity of his profession in his manner and deportment: his voice did not join in the hymn,
      but his mind evidently followed the words, as he from time to time glanced at the book which
      he held in his hand.  
  Doubtless he was well aware—but nothing in his demeanour seemed to indicate this
      consciousness—that he was the centre of all attraction: though not servilely meek nor
      hypocritically austere, he was still surrounded by a halo of religious fervour which commanded
      the most profound respect.  
  And towards him were turned hundreds of bright eyes; and the glances of fair maids dwelt
      upon his countenance rather than on their books.  
  The hymn ceased, and the service proceeded.  
  At length the anthem succeeding the communion-service, filled the chapel with its solemn
      echoes, accompanied by the pealing of the magnificent organ. Then a simultaneous sensation
      pervaded the entire congregation, and all eyes were directed towards the Rev. Reginald Tracy,
      who was now ascending the steps to the pulpit.  
  The anthem was ended; the congregation resumed their seats; and the preacher commenced.  
  It is not, however, our intention to treat our readers to a sermon: suffice it to say, that
      the eloquence and matter of the discourse which the Rev. Reginald Tracy delivered upon this
      occasion, were well calculated to sustain his high reputation.  
  But of the attentive audience, no individual seemed to be more deeply impressed with his
      sermon than Lady Cecilia Harborough, who sate in a pew near the pulpit—next indeed to the one
      which the clergyman himself had occupied during the former part of the service.  
  She was alone; for on the previous day she had hired that pew for her own especial use.  
  Whenever the eyes of the preacher were turned in the direction where she sate, she appeared
      to be wiping away tears from her cheeks; for the sermon was on a solemn and pathetic
      subject.  
  More than once she fancied that   he   observed her; and her heart beat triumphantly in
      her bosom.  
  When the sermon was concluded she remained in her pew, and allowed the rest of the
      congregation to leave the chapel ere she moved from her seat. At length the sacred edifice was
      deserted, save by herself and two or three officials connected with the establishment.  
  In a few minutes the pew-opener—an elderly matron-like person—accosted her, and said, "If
      you please, ma'am, the doors will be closed almost directly."  
  "Could you—could you oblige me with a glass of water?" faltered Lady Cecilia: "I feel as if
      I were about to faint."  
  "Oh! certainly, ma'am," answered the pew-opener; and she hurried to the vestry.  
  Presently she returned, accompanied by the Rev. Reginald Tracy himself.  
  "Is the lady very unwell?" inquired the clergyman of the pew-opener, as they advanced
      together towards Lady Cecilia's seat.  
  "She seems very languid—quite overcome, sir," was the answer. "But this is the pew."  
  The clergyman stepped forward, and instantly recognised the fair indisposed.  
  "Lady Harborough!" he exclaimed. "Is your ladyship unwell?"  
  And taking the tumbler of water from the pew-opener, he handed it to the baronet's wife.  
  "It is nothing—the heat, I suppose," murmured Lady Cecilia; and she drank a portion of the
      water. "Thank you, Mr. Tracy, for your attention: I feel better—much better now."  
  "Will your ladyship step into the vestry and sit down for a few minutes?" inquired the
      clergyman, really concerned at the presumed indisposition of the lady.  
  "If it would not be indiscreet, I should esteem it a favour," answered Cecilia, still
      speaking in a tremulous and faltering tone.  
  Reginald Tracy instantly proffered his arm to the lady, and conducted her to the vestry,
      where the venerable clergyman who had read the service was calmly discussing a glass of
      sherry.  
  "I am ashamed—perfectly ashamed to give you all this trouble, Mr. Tracy," said Cecilia, as
      she accepted the chair which was offered her; "but the heat of the chapel—and, to tell the
      truth, the emotions which your beautiful discourse aroused within me—quite overcame me."  
  "The chapel was, indeed, very much crowded," answered Reginald Tracy, touched by the homage
      rendered to his talent in the second cause which Lady Cecilia alleged for her
      indisposition.  
  "Nevertheless, this little incident will not in future prevent me from becoming one of the
      most regular of your congregation," observed Cecilia, with a smile.  
  Mr. Tracy bowed, and smiled also.  
  Both had brilliant teeth, and it was impossible for either to fail to notice this beautiful
      feature in each other.  
  "I feel quite recovered now," said Cecilia, after a short pause, "and will return home. I
      offer you my best thanks for this kind attention on your part."  
  "Do not mention it, Lady Harborough. But I cannot permit you to return alone, after this
      indisposition: allow me to conduct you as far as your own door?"  
  "I could not think of taking you out of your way—"  
  "It happens that I have a call to make in Tavistock Square, and am actually going that way,"
      interrupted Reginald Tracy.  
  Lady Cecilia, like a well-bred person as she was, offered no farther objection, but accepted
      the clergyman's escort to her own abode.  
   or two delicate, and apparently unsophisticated, allusions to the eloquence
      which had produced so deep an impression upon a crowded congregation, and the profound
      attention with which the sermon was received. Then she artfully, but with admirably assumed
      sincerity, questioned Mr. Tracy upon two or three passages in that discourse, and suffered him
      to perceive that not one word of it had been lost upon her.  
  Mr. Reginald Tracy was mortal like any other human being, and was not exempt from some of
      the weaknesses of that mortality. It was impossible for him not to experience a partial
      sentiment of pride and satisfaction at the impression which his eloquence had evidently made
      upon a young and beautiful woman; and that feeling became in the least degree more tender by
      the fact that this young and beautiful woman was leaning upon his arm.  
  Then how could he feel otherwise than flattered when, with her witching eyes upturned
      towards his countenance, she questioned him—so meekly and so sincerely, as he thought—upon the
      very passages of his sermon which he himself considered to be the best, and which he had
      studied to render the most effective? He   was   flattered—he smiled, and endeavoured to
      render himself agreeable to so charming a woman.  
  At length they reached the door of Lady Harborough's abode. The syren invited him to walk
      in, as a matter of course; but Mr. Tracy was compelled to forego that pleasure. He was really
      engaged elsewhere; or there is no saying but that he might have stepped in—only for a few
      minutes.  
  Lady Cecilia extended her hand to him at parting, and held his for just two or three
      moments, while she renewed her thanks for his attention. The action was perfectly natural; and
      yet the gentle contact of that delicate hand produced upon Reginald Tracy a sensation which he
      had never before experienced. It seemed to impart a glow of warmth and pleasure to his entire
      frame.  
  At length they separated; and as the Rector of Saint David's pursued his walk, he found his
      mind from time to time wandering away from more serious reflections, and reverting to the half
      hour which he had passed so agreeably in the society of Lady Harborough.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXVII. BLANDISHMENTS.  
  LADY Cecilia took very good care not to appear at chapel that evening. She was well aware
      that common politeness—if no other motive—would induce the Rev. Reginald Tracy to call on the
      following day to inquire after her health.  
  Accordingly, on the Monday, she took more than usual pains with her toilet.  
  Sir Rupert Harborough had departed with his "splendid friend" Chichester for the Continent;
      and she was completely her own mistress. She had no one to interfere with her plans or
      pursuits, for her lady's maid was entirely devoted to her interests. However others suffered
      or waited in respect to pecuniary matters, Sarah—the aforesaid lady's maid, or
         cameriste  —was always well and regularly paid.  
  It was by no means an uninteresting scene to behold the attention and zeal with which Sarah
      seconded her mistress's determination to make the most of her charms upon the present
      occasion.  
  Lady Cecilia was seated near her toilet-table, with a little gilt-edged oval-shaped mirror
      in her hands, which reposed in her lap; and Sarah was engaged in arranging the really
      beautiful hair of her mistress.  
  "What o'clock is it, Sarah?" inquired Lady Cecilia, casting a complacent glance at herself
      in the large looking-glass upon her toilet-table.  
  "It must be nearly one, my lady," was the reply.  
  "Then you have no time to lose, Sarah. The ringlets are quite divine; pray take equal pains
      with the back-hair. Do you think that I look better in ringlets or in bands?"  
  "In ringlets, my lady."  
  "And if I had my hair in bands, and asked you the same question, you would reply, '  In
       bands  .'"  
  "Your ladyship cannot think that I am so insincere," said the   cameriste  .  
  "Do you fancy me in this dress, Sarah?" asked the lady, heedless of her domestic's
      observation.  
  "I prefer the blue watered-silk," was the answer.  
  "Then why did you not recommend it in the first instance?"  
  "Your ladyship never required my advice."  
  "True. Have you finished?"  
  "No hairdresser from Bond Street, or the Burlington Arcade, could have performed his task
      better, my lady," replied Sarah.  
  "Yes—it is very well—very well, indeed," said Cecilia, surveying herself in the mirror. "I
      will now descend to the drawing-room."  
  When she reached that apartment, the artful woman spread on the table a few books on serious
      subjects; she then amused herself with a volume of a new novel.  
  The clock had just struck two, when a double-knock was heard at the front-door.  
  Lady Cecilia thrust the novel under the cushion of the sofa, and took up "Sturm's
      Reflections."  
  The Rev. Mr. Tracy was announced.  
  Lady Cecilia rose and received him with a charming languor of manner.  
  "I have called to satisfy myself that your ladyship has recovered from the indisposition of
      yesterday," said the rector.  
  "Not altogether," answered Cecilia. "Indeed, after I returned home, yesterday, I experienced
      a relapse."  
  "I observed that you were not at chapel in the evening, and I feared that such might be the
      case."  
  It was with difficulty that Lady Cecilia could suppress a smile of joy and triumph as this
      ingenuous and unsophisticated announcement met her ears. He had thought of her! he had noticed
      her absence!  
  "I can assure you that nothing save indisposition could have induced me to remain away from
      a place where one gathers so much matter for useful and serious meditation," answered the
      lady.  
  "And yet the world generally forgets the doctrines which are enunciated from the pulpit, an
      hour after their delivery," observed Reginald.  
  "Yes—when they are doled forth by ministers who have neither talent nor eloquence to make a
      profound impression," said Cecilia, artfully conveying a compliment without appearing to mean
      one at the moment. "I believe that our churches would be much better frequented, were the
      clergy less dogmatic, less obscure; and did they address themselves more to the hearts of
      their hearers than they do."  
   and not be satisfied with merely reaching the ears," said the rector,
      modestly.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And wherever the pastor possesses the rare talent of moving the feeling,—of exciting the
      mind to salutary reflection, as well as merely expounding points of doctrine,—thither will the
      multitude flock, high and low, rich and poor. Oh!" exclaimed Cecilia, as if carried away by
      the enthusiasm of the subject, "how grand—how noble a situation does that man occupy, who, by
      the magic of his voice and the power of his mind, can collect the thousands around his pulpit!
      I can understand how an impression may be easily made upon the half-educated or totally
      ignorant classes of society: but to cast a spell upon the intelligent, the well-informed, and
      the erudite,—to congregate the aristocracy of the realm to listen to the words that flow from
      his mouth,—oh! great, indeed, must be the influence of such a man!"  
  "You consider, then, Lady Cecilia, that the upper classes need powerful inducements to
      attend to the truths of religion?" said Reginald, irresistibly charmed by the witching
      eloquence that had marked the language of the beautiful woman in whose society he found
      himself.  
  "I consider—but, if I tell you my thoughts," said Cecilia, suddenly checking herself, "I
      shall unavoidably pay a high compliment to you; and that neither——"  
  "Let me hear your ladyship's sentiments in any case," said the clergyman, fearful of losing
      those honied words which produced upon him an impression such as he had never experienced in
      his life before.  
  "I believe," continued Cecilia, "that the upper classes in this country are very
      irreligious. I do not say that they are infidels: no—they all cherish a profound conviction of
      the truths of the gospel. But their mode of life—their indolent and luxurious habits, militate
      against a due regard to religious ceremonials. How is it, then, that they are aroused from
      their apathy? They hear of some great preacher, and curiosity in the first instance prompts
      them to visit the place of his ministry. They go—almost as they would repair to see a new
      play. But when they listen to his words—when they drink, in spite of themselves, large
      draughts of the fervour which animates   him   of a cold ceremonial; and they go home '  to reflect  !'"  
  "You believe that to be the case?" said the rector, delighted at this description of an
      influence and an effect which he could not do otherwise than know to be associated with his
      own ministry.  
  "I feel convinced that such is the fact," answered Lady Cecilia; then, lowering her tone in
      a mysterious manner, and leaning towards him, she added, "Many of my friends have confessed
      that such has been the case in respect to their attendance at your chapel—and such was the
      case with myself!"  
  "With you, Lady Cecilia?" exclaimed the clergyman, vainly endeavouring to conceal the
      triumph which he experienced at this announcement.  
  "Yes, with me," continued the artful woman. "For, to be candid with you, Mr. Tracy, I need
      consolation of some kind—and the solace of religion is the most natural and the most
      effective. My domestic life," she proceeded, in a deeply pathetic tone, "is far from a happy
      one. Sir Rupert thinks more of his own pleasures than of his wife;—he does more than neglect
      me—he abandons me for weeks and weeks together."  
  She put her handkerchief to her eyes.  
  Mr. Tracy drew his chair closer to the sofa on which she was seated: it was only a
      mechanical movement on his part—the movement of one who draws nearer as the conversation
      becomes more confidential.  
  "But why should I intrude my sorrows upon you?" suddenly exclaimed Cecilia. "And yet if it
      be not to the minister of religion to whom we poor creatures must unburden our woes, where
      else can we seek for consolation? from what other source can we hope to receive lessons of
      resignation and patience?"  
  "True," said the rector. "And that has often appeared to me the best and redeeming feature
      in the Roman Catholic world, where the individual places reliance upon his priest, and looks
      to him for spiritual support and aid."  
  "Ah! would that our creed permitted us the same privilege!" said Lady Cecilia, with great
      apparent enthusiasm.  
  "I know of no rule nor law which forbids the exercise of such a privilege," said Reginald;
      "unless, indeed, usage and custom be predominant, and will admit of no exceptions."  
  "For my part, I despise such customs and usages, when they tend to the exclusion of those
      delightful outpourings of confidence which the individual pants to breathe into the ears of
      the pastor in whom implicit faith can be placed. In how many cases could the good clergyman
      advise his parishioners, to the maintenance of their domestic comfort? how many heart-burnings
      in families would not such a minister be enabled to soothe? Oh! sir, I feel that your
      eloquence could teach me how to bear, unrepiningly, and even cheerfully, all the sorrows of my
      own domestic hearth!"  
  "Then look upon me as a friend, my dear Lady Cecilia," said the clergyman, drawing his chair
      a little closer still: "look upon me as a friend; and happy indeed shall I be if my humble
      agency or advice can contribute to smooth the path of life for even only one individual!"  
  "Mr. Tracy, I accept your preferred friendship—I accept it as sincerely as it is offered,"
      exclaimed Lady Cecilia; and she extended her hand towards him.  
  He took it. It was soft and warm, and it gently pressed his. He returned the pressure:—was
      it not the token, the pledge of friendship? He thought so—and he meant no harm.  
  But again did the contact of that soft and warm hand awake within his breast a flame till
      then unknown; and his cheeks flushed, and his eyes met those of the fair—the fascinating
      creature, who craved his friendship!  
  "Henceforth," said Cecilia, who now saw that her intrigue was progressing towards a complete
      triumph—even more rapidly than she had ever anticipated—"henceforth you will have no votary
      more constant in attendance than I; but, on your part, you must occasionally spare from your
      valuable time a single half hour wherein to impart to me the consolations I so much
      require."  
  "Be not afraid, Lady Cecilia," said the rector, who now felt himself attracted towards that
      woman by a spell of irresistible influence: "I shall not forget that you have ingenuously and
      frankly sought my spiritual aid; and I should be false to the holy cause in which I have
      embarked, were I to withhold it."  
  "I thank you—deeply, sincerely thank you," exclaimed Cecilia. "But judge for yourself
      whether I do not seek solace, in my domestic afflictions, from the proper source! This is the
      book which I was reading when you called."  
  Cecilia took up Sturm's "Reflections," and opened the book at random.  
  "There," she said; "it was this page which I was perusing."  
  She held the book in her hands as she reclined, rather than sate, upon the sofa; and the
      clergyman was compelled to lean over her to obtain a glimpse of the page to which she
      pointed.  
  His hair touched hers: she did not move her head. Their faces were close to each other. But
      not an impure thought entered his soul: still he was again excited by that thrilling sensation
      which came over him whenever he touched her.  
  She affected not to perceive that their hair commingled, but pointed to the page, and
      expatiated upon its contents.  
  In a moment of abstraction, for which he could not account, and against the influence of
      which he was not proof, Reginald Tracy's eyes wandered from the book to the form which
      reclined, beneath his glance, as it were, upon the sofa. That glance swept the
      well-proportioned undulations of the slight but charming figure which was voluptuously
      stretched upon the cushions.  
  Suddenly Cecilia left off speaking, and turned her eyes upward to his countenance. Their
      glances met; and Reginald did not immediately avert his head. There was something in the
      depths of those melting blue orbs which fascinated him.  
  Still he suspected not his extreme danger; and when he rose to depart, it was simply because
      he felt like a man flushed with wine, and who requires air.  
  He took his leave; and Cecilia reminded him that she should expect to see him soon
      again.  
  Can there be a doubt as to his answer?  
  When he regarded his watch, on reaching the street, he was astounded to perceive that two
      hours had slipped away since he entered the house.  
    
  
  CHAPTER CXXVIII. TEMPTATION.  
  "He will come again on Wednesday," said Lady Cecilia to herself, as she heard the front door
      close behind the Rev. Reginald Tracy.  
  This wily woman was well-acquainted with the human heart: she had discovered the weak side
      of the rector of Saint David's: she assailed him by means of his vulnerable point; she
      directed her way to his heart through the avenue of his   vanity  .  
  Yes—Reginald Tracy was vain,—as vain as a man who was admired and sought after by all
      classes, was likely to be rendered,—as vain as a spoiled child of the public could be.  
  His life had, moreover, been so pure, so chaste, so ascetic, that the fierce passions which
      agitate other men were unknown to him; and, as all mortals must be characterised by some
      failing, his was a habit of self-admiration!  
  Venial and insignificant was this foible, so long as no advantage was taken of it by
      designing or worldly-minded persons; but even our lightest defects, as well as our most
      "pleasant vices," may be made the means of our ruin.  
  Vanity is a noxious weed which, when nurtured by the dews of flattery, spreads its poisonous
      roots throughout the fertile soil of the heart; and each root springs up into a plant more
      venomous, more rank; more baleful than its predecessor.  
  The life of Reginald Tracy had been singularly pure. He had even passed through the ordeal
      of a college career without affixing the least stain on the chastity of his soul. Yet with all
      his austerity of virtue, he was characterised by no austerity of manner: he mixed freely in
      society, and hesitated not to frequent the ball-room—although he did not dance. He could be a
      pleasant companion: at the same time he never uttered a word upon which he had to retrospect
      with regret. When amongst men, no obscene jest nor ribald allusion was vented in his presence;
      and yet he was never voted "a bore." In a word, he was one of those men who possess the rare
      talent of maintaining a character for every virtue, and of being held up as a pattern and an
      example, without creating a single enemy—without even being compelled to encounter the irony
      of the libertine, and without producing a feeling of restraint or embarrassment in the society
      which he frequented.  
  Such was Reginald Tracy; and it was this man,—who at the age of thirty-six could look back
      with complacency upon a spotless life,—a life unsullied by a single fault,—an existence devoid
      of the slightest dereliction from moral propriety,—it was this good, this holy, this
      saint-like man whom the daring Cecilia undertook to subdue.  
  Reginald, Reginald! the day of thy temptation has now come: thou standest upon a pinnacle of
      the temple—the tempter is by thy side;—take good heed of thyself, Reginald Tracy!  
  "He will come again on Wednesday," had said Lady Cecilia.  
  The prediction was fulfilled!  
  The morning had been so inclement that no one would have stirred abroad unless actuated by
      important motives. The rain had fallen in torrents,—beating violently against the windows, and
      inundating the streets. It had, however, ceased at noon; but the sky remained covered with
      black clouds; and at three o'clock on that gloomy winter-day it was dark and sombre as if
      night were at hand.  
  But in spite of that inauspicious weather, the Rev. Reginald Tracy knocked at Lady Cecilia
      Harborough's door at the hour which we have just mentioned.  
  The designing creature received the clergyman with a smile, exclaiming at the same time, "It
      is indeed kind of you to visit me on such a day as this. I have been so happy—so resigned—so
      possessed with the most complete mental tranquillity since you manifested sympathy and
      interest in my behalf, that your presence appears to be that of a good angel!"  
  "It is our duty to sustain those who droop, and console those who suffer," answered the
      rector.  
  "Delightful task!" ejaculated Cecilia. "What a pure and holy satisfaction must you enjoy,
      when you reflect upon the amount of comfort which your lessons impart to the world-wearied and
      sinking spirit. Believe me, many an one has entered the gates of your chapel with a weight
      upon his soul almost too heavy for him to bear, and has issued forth carrying his burden of
      care lightly, if not cheerfully, along!"  
  "Do you really imagine that my humble agency can produce such good results in the cause of
      heaven?" asked Reginald, fixing a glance of mingled tenderness and satisfaction upon the
      charming countenance of Cecilia.  
  "I do—I do," she answered, with apparent enthusiasm; "I can judge by the effect which your
      admirable discourse of last Sunday morning produced upon myself. For—let me not deceive you,"
      she continued, hanging down her head, and speaking in a tremulous and tender voice,—"let me
      not deceive you—it was not the heat of the chapel which overcame me—it was your eloquence! I
      dared not confess this to you at first; but now—now that I can look upon you as a friend—I
      need have no secret from you."  
  She took his hand as she uttered these words, and pressed it in a manner which he conceived
      to be indicative of grateful fervour; and without a thought of evil—but with an undefinable
      sensation of pleasure to which until lately he had been all his life a stranger—he returned
      that pressure.  
  Lady Cecilia did not withdraw her hand, but allowed it to linger in his; and he retained it
      under the influence of that sensation which caused his veins to flow with liquid fire.  
  He was sitting on the sofa by her side, and his eyes wandered from her countenance over the
      outlines of her form.  
  "Oh! how can the man who accompanied you to the altar, and there swore to love and cherish
      you," he exclaimed, in an ebullition of impassioned feelings such as he had never known
      before,—"how can that man find it in his heart to neglect—to abandon you,—you who are
      evidently all gentleness, amiability, and candour!"  
  "He has no heart—no soul for any one save himself," answered Cecilia. "And now tell
      me—relieve my mind from a most painful suspense upon one point! Am I criminal in the eyes of
      heaven, because I have ceased to love one whom I vowed to love, but whose conduct has quenched
      all the affection that I once experienced for him?"  
  "You must not harden your heart against him," said Reginald; "but by your resignation, your
      uncomplaining patience, your meekness, and your constant devotion to his interests, you must
      seek to bring him back to the paths of duty and love."  
  "I might as well essay to teach the hyena gratitude," answered Cecilia.  
   Saint David's; and yet he was not altogether displeased at the aversion which
      Lady Cecilia's language manifested towards her husband.  
  "Alas! we have no power over volition," said she; "and that doctrine is a severe one which
      enjoins us to kiss the hand that strikes us."  
  "True," observed Reginald. "I know not how it is—but I feel that I am at this moment
      unaccountably deficient in argument to meet your objections; and yet——"  
  He paused, for he felt embarrassed; but he knew not why.  
  "Oh! you can appreciate the difficulty of enjoining a love towards one who merits hatred,"
      exclaimed Cecilia, now skilfully availing herself of the crisis to which she had so artfully
      conducted the conversation. "You see that you are deficient in reasoning to enforce the
      alleged necessity of maintaining, cherishing, and nourishing respect and veneration for a
      husband who has forfeited all claims to such feelings on the part of his injured wife. At all
      events, do not tell me that I am criminal in ceasing to love one who oppresses me;—do not say
      that I offend heaven by ceasing to kiss the hand that rudely repulses all my overtures of
      affection;—oh! tell me not   that  —or you will make me very, very miserable indeed!"  
  Lady Cecilia's bosom was convulsed with sobs as she uttered these words in a rapid and
      impassioned manner; and as she ceased speaking her head fell upon Reginald's shoulder.  
  "Compose yourself—compose yourself, Lady Cecilia," exclaimed the clergyman, alarmed by this
      ebullition of grief, the sincerity of which he could not for one moment suspect. "Do not give
      way to sorrow—remember the lessons of resignation and patience which you have heard from my
      lips—remember——"  
  But the lady sobbed as if her heart would break: her head reclined upon his shoulder—her
      forehead touched his face—her hand was still clasped in his.  
  "Oh Reginald!—Reginald!" she murmured, "I cannot love my husband more—no—it is impossible! I
      love another!"  
  "You love another!" ejaculated the rector, his whole frame trembling with an ineffable
      feeling of mingled joy and suspense.  
  "Yes—and now reproach, revile me—leave me—spurn me—treat me with contempt!" continued
      Cecilia: "do all this if you will; but never, never can you prevent me from idolizing—adoring
      you!"  
  "Cecilia!" cried Reginald Tracy, starting from his seat; "you know not what you are
      saying!"  
  "Alas! I know but too well the feelings which my words express," returned the lady, clasping
      her hands together, and sobbing violently. "Hear me for a few minutes, and then leave me to
      the misery of my fate—a hopeless love, and a breaking heart!"  
  "Speak, then, and unburden your mind to me without reserve," said Reginald, resuming his
      seat upon the sofa, and inviting a confidence the thought of which produced in his mind
      emotions of bliss and burning joy, the power of which was irresistible.  
  "Yes, I will speak, even though I render myself contemptible in your sight," continued
      Cecilia, wiping her eyes and affecting to resume that calmness which she had never lost more
      than the impassioned actress on the stage, when enacting some melo-dramatic part. "For months
      and months past I have cherished for you a feeling, the true nature of which has only revealed
      itself to me within the last few days. In the first instance, I admired your character and
      your talents: I respected you; and respect and admiration soon ripened into another feeling.
      You do not know the heart of woman; but it is ever moved by a contemplation of the sublime
      characteristics of remarkable men—like you. I met you in society, and I almost worshipped the
      ground on which you trod. I listened to your conversation: not a word was lost to me! During
      long and sleepless nights your image was ever present to my mind. You became an idol that I
      adored. At length you yourself, one evening, innocently and unconsciously, fanned the flame
      that was engendered in my heart: you told me that   I looked well  . That passing
      compliment rendered me your devoted slave. I thought that no human happiness could be greater
      than that of pleasing you. I resolved to attend your chapel from that period. I obtained the
      pew that was nearest to the pulpit; and when you preached I was electrified. Oh! you saw how I
      was overcome! Your attention to me on that occasion threw additional chains around me. Then
      you called on me the day before yesterday, and you spoke so kindly that I was every moment on
      the point of falling at your feet, and exclaiming,—'  Forgive me, but I now know that I love
       you!  ' You proffered me your friendship: how joyously I accepted the sacred gift! And
      that friendship—oh! let me not forfeit it now—for the love which my heart cherishes for you
      shall be as pure and taintless as that friendship with which you have blessed me!"  
  Reginald had listened to this strange confession with the most profound attention;—yes, and
      with the deepest interest.  
  A young and beautiful woman had avowed her love for him—she sate near him;—his hand still
      thrilled with the pressure of hers—his cheek was still warm and flushed with the contact of
      her white and polished forehead;—the room was involved in obscurity and silence.  
  She had insinuated herself, in an incredibly short space of time, into his heart, by
      flattering his vanity and exciting those desires which had hitherto slumbered so profoundly in
      his breast, but which were now ready to burst for with the violence of the long pent-up
      volcano.  
  He trembled—he hesitated. At one moment he was inclined to rush from the house, as if from
      the presence of the tempter; and then he remembered that the love which she had avowed was as
      pure as his friendship!  
  Nevertheless, the struggle in his mind was terrific.  
  Cecilia understood it all.  
  "You hate me—you despise me," she suddenly exclaimed, covering her face with her hands. "Oh!
      do not crush me with your contempt—do not abandon me to the conviction of your abhorrence!
      Reginald—take pity upon me: forgive me for loving you—forgive me—on my knees I implore
      you!"  
  She threw herself before him: she took his hand and pressed it to her lips.  
  She covered it with kisses.  
  "Cecilia," murmured the rector, making a faint effort to withdraw his hand.  
  "No—no, you shall not leave me thus," she exclaimed, with apparent wildness: "I should die
      if you went away, without telling me that you forgive me! No, you must not leave me thus!"  
  "Rise, Cecilia—rise—in the name of heaven, rise!" exclaimed Reginald, alarmed lest they
      should be discovered in that equivocal position: "rise, and I will forgive you. I will do all
      that you desire—I will not leave you until you are composed."  
   not withdraw your friendship?" demanded Cecilia, in a soft and melting tone.  
  "No—never, never!" cried Reginald, enthusiastically, as if he suddenly abandoned himself to
      the torrent of passion which now swept through his soul.  
  "Oh! thank you—thank you for that assurance!" exclaimed Cecilia; and, as if yielding to an
      unconquerable burst of feeling, she threw herself into his arms: "you shall be as a brother to
      me; and our friendship, our love, shall be eternal!"  
  Her rich red mouth was pressed upon the rector's lips; her arms were wound around him; and
      for a moment he yielded to the intoxicating delight of that pleasure so new to him.  
  But ere he was entirely culpable, his guardian genius struck his soul with a sudden remorse;
      and, disengaging himself from the syren's arms, he imprinted one long—burning—delicious kiss
      upon her lips; then, murmuring, "To-morrow, to-morrow, dearest Cecilia, I will see thee
      again," rushed from the room.  
  "He is mine!" exclaimed the lady, as the door closed behind him; "irrevocably mine!"  
  
  CHAPTER CXXIX. THE FALL.  
  REGINALD Tracy returned to his own abode, his breast agitated with a variety of conflicting
      feelings.  
  He pushed his old housekeeper, who announced to him that dinner was ready, rudely aside, and
      hurried up to his own chamber.  
  There he threw himself upon his knees, and endeavoured to pray to be released from
      temptation.  
  For he now comprehended all the dangers which beset him, although he suspected not the
      perfidy and artifice of the tempter.  
  But not a word of supplication could he utter from the mouth which still burned with the
      thrilling kisses of the beautiful Cecilia.  
  He rose from his knees, and paced the room wildly,—at one moment vowing never to see that
      syren more,—at another longing to rush back to her arms.  
  The animal passions of that man were strong by nature and threatened to be insatiable
      whenever let loose; but they had slumbered from his birth, beneath the lethargic influence of
      high principle and asceticism.  
  Moreover, they had never been tempted until the present time; and now that temptation came
      so suddenly, and in so sweet a guise,—came with such irresistible blandishments,—came, in a
      word, so accompanied with all that could flatter his vanity or minister unto his pride,—that
      he knew not how to resist its influence.  
  And at one moment that man of unblemished character and lofty principle fell upon his knees,
      grovelling as it were at the foot-stool of Him whom he served,—anxious, yearning to crave for
      courage to escape from the peril that awaited him,—and yet unable to breathe a syllable of
      prayer. Then he walked in a wild and excited manner up and down, murmuring the name of
      Cecilia,—pondering upon her charms,—plunging into voluptuous reveries and dreams of vaguely
      comprehended bliss,—until his desires became of that fiery, hot, and unruly nature, which
      triumphed over all other considerations.  
  It was an interesting—and yet an awful spectacle, to behold that man, who could look back
      over a life of spotless and unblemished purity, now engaged in a terrific warfare with the
      demons of passion that were raging to cast off their chains, and were struggling furiously for
      dominion over the proud being who had hitherto held them in silence and in bondage.  
  But those demons had acquired strength during their long repose; and now that the day of
      rebellion had arrived, they maintained an avenging and desperate conflict with him who had
      long been their master. They were like a people goaded to desperation by the atrocities of a
      blood-thirsty tyrant: they fought a battle in which there was to be no quarter, but wherein
      one side or the other must succumb.  
  Hour after hour passed; and still he sustained the conflict with the new feelings which had
      been excited within him, and which were rapidly crushing all the better sentiments of his
      soul. At length he retired to bed, a prey to a mental uneasiness which amounted to a
      torture.  
  His sleep was agitated and filled with visions by no means calculated to calm the fever of
      his blood. He awoke in the morning excited, unsettled, and with a desperate longing after
      pleasures which were as yet vague and undefined to him.  
  But still a sense of the awful danger which menaced him stole into his mind from time to
      time; and he shuddered as if he were about to commit a crime.  
  He left the table, where the morning's meal was untasted, and repaired to his study. But his
      books had no longer any charm for him: he could not settle his mind to read or write.  
  He went out, and rambled in all directions, reckless whither he went—but anxious to throw
      off the spell which had fallen upon him.  
  Vain was this attempt.  
  The air was piercing and cold; but his brow was burning. He felt that his cheeks were
      flushed; and his eyes seemed to shoot forth fire.  
  "My God! what is the matter with me?" he exclaimed, in his anguish, as he entered Hyde Park,
      the comparative loneliness of which at that season he thought calculated to soothe his
      troubled thoughts. "I have tried to pray—and last night, for the first time in my life, I
      sought my pillow, unable to implore the blessings of my Maker. Oh! what spell has overtaken
      me? what influence is upon me? Cecilia—Cecilia—is it indeed thou that hast thus changed
      me?"  
  He went on,—now musing upon all that had passed within the few preceding days—now breaking
      forth into wild and passionate exclamations.  
  He left the Park, and walked rapidly through the streets of the West End.  
  "No," he said within himself, "I will never see her more. I will conquer these horrible
      feelings—I will triumph over the mad desires, the fiery cravings which have converted the
      heaven of my heart into a raging hell! Oh! why is she so beautiful? why did she say that she
      loved me? Was it to disturb me in my peaceful career—to wean me from my God? No—no: she
      yielded to an impulse which she could not control;—she loves me—she loves me—she loves
      me!"  
  There was a species of insanity in his manner as he thus addressed himself,—not speaking
      with the lips, but with the heart,—unheard by those who passed him by, but with a voice which
      vibrated like thunder in his own ears.  
   must fly from her—I must avoid her as if she were a venomous serpent. I dare not
      trust myself again in her presence: and not for worlds—not for worlds would I be with her
      alone once more. No,—I must forget her—I must tear her image from my heart—I must trample it
      under foot!"  
  He paused as he spoke: he stood still—for he was exhausted.  
  But how was it that the demon of mischief had, with an under-current of irresistible
      influence, carried him on, in spite of the forceful flow of the above reflections, to the very
      goal of destruction!  
  He was in Tavistock Square.  
  He was at the door of Lady Cecilia Harborough's house.  
  And now for one minute a terrific conflict again raged within him. It seemed as if he
      collected all his remaining courage to struggle with the demons in his heart; but he was weak
      with the protracted contest—and they were more powerful than ever.  
  "I will see her once more," he said, yielding to the influence of his passions: "I will tell
      her that I stand upon an abyss—I will implore her to have mercy upon me, and permit me to
      retreat ere yet it be too late!"  
  His good genius held him faintly back; but his passions goaded him on: he obeyed the latter
      impulse; he rushed up the steps and knocked at the door.  
  "Even now I might retreat," he said to himself: "there is still time! I will—I will!"  
  He turned, and was already half-way down the steps, when the door was opened.  
  His good resolutions vanished, and he entered the house.  
  In a few moments more he was in the presence of Lady Cecilia,—Lady Cecilia—looking more
      bewitching, more captivating than ever!  
  She had expected him, and had resolved that this visit, on his part, should crown her
      triumph.  
  It was in a small parlour adjoining her own boudoir that she received him.  
  The luxurious sofa was placed near the cheerful fire: the heavy curtains were drawn over the
      windows in such a manner as to darken the room.  
  Cecilia was attired in a black silk dress, that she had purposely chosen to enhance the
      transparent brilliancy of her complexion, and to display the dazzling whiteness of a bust,
      which, though of small proportions, was of perfect contour.  
  She was reclining languidly upon the cushions which were piled on one end of the sofa, and
      her little feet peeped from beneath the skirts of her dress.  
  She did not rise when Reginald entered the room, but invited him to take a seat near her
      upon the sofa.  
  So bewitchingly beautiful did she appear, as the strong glare of the fire played upon her
      countenance, amidst the semi-obscurity of the room, that he could not resist the signal.  
  He accordingly sate down by her side.  
  "Your visit to-day," said Cecilia, "proves to me that you have forgiven the indiscreet
      confession into which I was yesterday led in a moment of weakness."  
  "I am come as a friend—as a true and sincere   friend  ," returned Reginald, with
      considerable emphasis upon the last word. "But I know not whether my occupations, my duties,
      in a word—will permit me to visit you again for some time——"  
  "Oh! do not deprive me of the pleasure of your society from time to time," interrupted
      Cecilia, divining all that was passing in the rector's soul, and well aware, by the tremulous
      tone in which he spoke, that his good resolutions were but unequal opponents to the fury of
      his newly awakened passions.  
  "Listen, Lady Cecilia," answered Reginald; "and I will tell you frankly the real motives
      which most compel me to forego the pleasure of your society in future. I tremble for
      myself!"  
  "You tremble for yourself!" repeated Cecilia, with ill-concealed joy. "Do you think me,
      then, so very formidable?"  
  "Formidable—oh! no," ejaculated Reginald, darting an impassioned glance upon his ravishing
      companion. "But I consider that you are very beautiful—too beautiful for me thus to seek your
      presence with impunity."  
  "Then would you sever that bond of friendship which you yourself proposed so generously, so
      kindly?" asked Lady Cecilia, placing her hand upon that of the rector, and approaching her
      countenance towards his as if to read the answer in his eyes.  
  "It must be so—it must be so—for my peace of mind, Cecilia!" cried Reginald, thrilled by
      that electric touch, and receiving into his own soul no small portion of that same
      voluptuousness which animated the fair patrician at that moment.  
  "It must be so,—oh! cruel resolve!" said Cecilia, pressing his hand between both of hers.
      "But let me not advance my selfish feelings as a barrier to your interest. Oh! no, Reginald—I
      would sacrifice every thing to give you pleasure! You shall go—you shall leave me; but you
      will sometimes think of me—you will occasionally devote a thought to her who has dared to love
      you!"  
  "Dared to love me!" exclaimed the rector;—"and what if I—— but no—it is madness!"  
  "Speak—tell me what you were about to say," murmured Cecilia, in a melting tone.  
  "I was on the point of asking what you would think—what opinion you would form of me, if I
      were to confess that I also dared to love you?"  
  "I should reply that such happiness never could descend upon me," said Cecilia.  
  "And yet it is true—it is true! I cannot conceal it from myself," exclaimed Reginald, giving
      way to the influence of his emotions: "it is true that I love you!"  
  "Oh! am I indeed so blest?" faltered Cecilia. "Tell me once more that you love me!"  
  "Love you!" cried the rector, unable to wrestle longer with his mad desires: "I worship—I
      adore you—I will die for you!"  
  He caught her in his arms, and covered her with burning and impassioned kisses.  
  rend="stars" unit="subchapter"/ 
  Oh, Reginald! and hast thou at length fallen? Have a few short days sufficed to undo and
      render as naught the purity—the chastity of years?  
  Where was thy guardian angel in that hour?  
  Whither had fled that proud virtue which raised thee so high above thy fellow-men, and which
      gave to thine eloquence the galvanic effect of the most sublime truth?  
  Look back—look back, with bitterness and sorrow, upon the brilliant career through which
      thou hast run up to this hour, and curse the madness that prompted thee to darken so bright a
      destiny!  
    
  Henceforth, in thine own heart, wilt thou know thyself as a hypocrite and a deceiver!  
  rend="stars" unit="subchapter"/ 
  It was past eleven o'clock when Reginald Tracy issued from the abode of Lady Cecilia
      Harborough.  
  The night was dark; but from time to time the moon shone for a short interval, as the clouds
      were swept away from its face.  
  Reginald paused for a moment upon the steps of the door, and gazed upwards.  
  The tempestuous aspect of the heavens alarmed him; and a superstitious dread crept, like a
      death-shudder, over his entire frame; for it seemed to him as if the mansion of the Almighty
      had put on its sable garb in mourning for a soul that was lost unto the blessings of
      eternity.  
  Deeply imbued as he was with a sense of the grand truths of the gospel, this sudden and
      awful idea speedily assumed so dread a shape in his mind, that he felt alarmed, as if a
      tremendous gulph were about to open beneath his feet.  
  He hurried on, hoping to outstrip his thoughts; but that idea pursued him,—haunted
      him,—every moment increasing in terrific solemnity, until it wore the appearance of a mighty
      truth instead of a phantom of the imagination.  
  Again he looked upwards; and the dense sombre clouds, which rolled rapidly like huge black
      billows over each other, imparted fresh terrors to his guilty soul.  
  Then his feverish and excited imagination began to invest those clouds with fantastic
      shapes; and he traced in the midst of the heavens a mighty black hand, the fore-finger of
      which pointed menacingly   downwards  .  
  The more he gazed—the more palpable to his mind that apparition became. Half sinking with
      terror—oppressed with an astounding, a crushing consciousness of his adulterous guilt—the
      wretched man went wildly on, reckless of the way which he pursued, and every minute casting
      horror-stricken glances up to the colossal black hand which seemed suspended over his
      head.  
  Suddenly a deafening peal of thunder burst above him: he looked frantically up—the hand
      appeared to wave in a convulsive manner—then the clouds parted, rolling pell-mell over each
      other,—and the terrific sign was broken into a hundred moving masses.  
  Never did erring mortal so acutely feel his guilt as Reginald Tracy on this fearful
      night.  
  The storm burst forth; and he ran madly on, without aim—a prey to the most appalling
      reflections.  
  It was not of this world that he now thought,—it was not on its reproaches, its blame, or
      its punishment, that his mental looks were fixed;—but it was of eternity that he was
      afraid.  
  He trembled when he thought of that Maker whose praise he had so lately sung with pride, and
      hope, and joy,—and whose name he dared not now invoke!  
  Oh! his punishment had already begun.  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  Weak, wearied, subdued,—drenched with the rain that had accompanied the storm; and in state
      of mind bordering upon madness and despair, the wretched man reached his home at four o'clock
      in the morning.  
  But whither he had wandered, and which way he had taken,—whether he had continued running
      on, or had rested once or often during that terrific night, he never remembered.  
  He retired to bed, and slept during several hours. When he awoke, the sun was shining
      gloriously through his casement; but the horrors and the congenial reflections of darkness had
      left too fearful an impression upon his mind to be readily effaced; for he was not so inured
      to vice as to treat with levity the events of the past night,—events which to his
      superstitious imagination had assumed the aspect of celestial warning and divine menace.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXX. MENTAL STRUGGLES.  
  THE rector of Saint David's fell upon his knees, and, turning his face towards the casement
      through which the sun glanced so cheerfully into the chamber, poured forth his soul to the
      Being of whose universal dominion that radiance seemed an emblem.  
  Reginald could now pray. He had sinned deeply, and he implored pardon; for he conceived that
      heaven had deigned to convey a special warning to his mind through the medium of the clouds
      and the storm of the preceding night.  
  "Oh! I am not yet totally lost!" he exclaimed, joining his hands fervently together: "I am
      not yet an outcast from divine mercy! Heaven itself manifests an interest in my welfare: dare
      I neglect the warning? No—no! I have sinned—but there is repentance. Upon my otherwise
      spotless life there is one stain; but tears of regret shall be shed unceasingly until the mark
      be washed away! And thou, temptress—never more must we meet as we have lately met; I must shun
      thee as my evil genius! Yet I do not blame thee—for I myself was fond, and being fond, was
      weak. If I fell, and can yet aspire to pardon and forgiveness,—I who was strong,—what
      extenuation may not exist for thee—a poor, weak woman! Oh! let the light of divine grace shine
      in upon my soul, even as these bright beams of the orb of day penetrate with cheering
      influence to my very heart! Let me rise up from the depths of sin, stronger than when I
      fell,—so that sad experience may tend to confirm my resolves to pursue the paths of chastity
      and virtue!"  
  Thus spoke aloud Reginald Tracy, as he knelt in his chamber the day after his fall: thus did
      he breathe vows of future self-denial and purity.  
  He rose resigned, and penitent,—though at intervals a species of struggle took place in his
      breast—a conflict between his recently-experienced sensations of amorous delight and his
      present resolutions of abstinence from carnal pleasures.  
  In a moment when his better feelings were predominant, he wrote a brief letter to Lady
      Cecilia, imploring her to forget all that had taken place between them, and enjoining her, if
      she entertained the slightest interest in his earthly and immortal welfare, never to seek to
      see him again.  
  Then Reginald gathered all his most valued books around him, and plunged into his studies
      with an earnestness which augured well for the strength and permanency of his good
      resolutions.  
    
  Yes, this man of fiery passions wrestled gallantly with his inclinations: the combat was at
      times a fearful one; but he exerted all his strength, and all his power, and all his energy,
      to subdue those desires which were smouldering, and were not quenched, at the bottom of his
      soul.  
  It was in the evening of the fourth day after the rector's fall from the pedestal of his
      purity, that his studies were interrupted by the entrance of his housekeeper, who informed him
      that a gentleman desired to speak to him.  
  The rector ordered the visitor to be admitted; and Mr. Richard Markham was announced.  
  The object of our hero's call was speedily explained.  
  Mr. Monroe was lying in a dangerous state, and his life was despaired of. Mr. Wentworth, the
      surgeon, who attended upon him, had recommended him to settle all his earthly affairs, and
      prepare his soul to meet his Creator; and the old man, who was fully sensible of the
      importance of this advice, had expressed a wish to receive spiritual consolation from a
      minister whose sanctity had become proverbial.  
  "The desire of my dying friend," added Markham, "must serve as an apology for my intrusion
      upon you; but, I implore you, reverend sir, not to hesitate to soothe by your much-coveted
      presence the passage of a fellow-creature from this world to a better."  
  But for a moment the rector   did   hesitate:—was he fit to administer divine
      consolation to another,—he who was still deeply dyed with sin himself?  
  Such was the thought which floated rapidly through his imagination.  
  Richard urged his request with eloquence.  
  Reginald Tracy felt that he could offer no sufficient excuse, short of the revelation of his
      own guilt, for refusing to attend the death-bed of one who craved his presence; and he agreed
      to accompany the young man to Markham Place.  
  Richard had a vehicle at the door; and in a short time they reached our hero's abode.  
  Reginald was conducted to the room where Monroe lay.  
  Hanging over the pillow, on which the invalid reclined, was a charming female form, from
      whose bosom deep sobs emanated, and rendered almost inaudible the words of strangely
      commingled hope and despair which she addressed to her father.  
  She did not hear the door open; and it was only when Richard approached the bed, and
      whispered that the Reverend Mr. Tracy was present, that she raised her tearful
      countenance.  
  Then did the eyes of the rector glance upon one of the most lovely beings whom Nature ever
      invested with all her choicest gifts; and—even in that solemn moment when he stood by the bed
      of one who was pronounced to be dying—his soul was stirred by the presence of that
      transcendent beauty.  
  "Oh! sir," exclaimed Ellen, in that musical voice which was now rendered tremulous by deep
      emotions, "how grateful am I for this prompt attention to the wish of my dear—dear
      father!"  
  "I deserve no gratitude for the performance of a Christian duty," answered the rector, as he
      approached the bed.  
  Markham took Ellen's hand and led her from the chamber, in order to allow unrestrained
      converse between the clergyman and the invalid.  
  An hour elapsed, and the bell of the sick-room rang.  
  Ellen hurried thither, and found her father composed and resigned to meet his fate. The
      rector sate by his bed-side.  
  "This holy man," said Monroe, "has taught me how to die like a true Christian. Weep not,
      dearest Ellen; we shall meet again hereafter."  
  "Oh, my dearest father," exclaimed the young lady, bursting into an agony of tears; "it is
      I—I who have murdered you! My conduct——"  
  "Silence, Ellen—accuse not yourself in that dreadful manner," interrupted her father.  
  Reginald was astonished at the words which had just fallen from the daughter's lips; and he
      surveyed her with increased interest and curiosity.  
  At that moment Mr. Wentworth entered the room. He found the invalid better, and his
      countenance was animated with a ray of hope.  
  This expression of his inward feelings was not lost upon Ellen; and she interrogated him
      with a rapid and imploring glance.  
  "Mr. Monroe must be kept very—very quiet," said the surgeon in a whisper, which was
      addressed to both Ellen and Reginald Tracy.  
  "And then—there is hope?" murmured Ellen in breathless suspense.  
  "Yes—there is hope," repeated the surgeon solemnly.  
  "May heaven be thanked for that assurance on your part," said Ellen, fervently.  
  The rector contemplated her with an admiration which he could not restrain; and, in spite of
      himself, the thought flashed across his mind, how far more lovely was Miss Ellen Monroe than
      Lady Cecilia Harborough!  
  Then, indignant with himself for having allowed the comparison to force itself upon his
      attention, he rose to take his departure.  
  The invalid had just sunk into a deep slumber; and Mr. Wentworth intimated his intention of
      passing the night by his side.  
  "I will call again to-morrow morning," said Reginald, addressing Miss Monroe; "for I
      perceive that this gentleman is not without hopes."  
  "Thank you—thank you, sir, for your kindness," answered Ellen with grateful enthusiasm.
      "Your presence seems to have brought a blessing into this sick-room."  
  She extended her hand towards him, and he pressed it for a moment in his.  
  His whole frame seemed electrified with a sudden glow; and he hurried somewhat abruptly from
      the room.  
  When he reached his own abode once more, he felt a profound melancholy steal into his soul;
      for he seemed more lonely, and more solitary than he ever yet had been.  
  He retired to rest, and his dreams were filled with the images of Cecilia and Ellen.  
  When he awoke in the morning, he was discontented with himself—with the whole world: he
      experienced vague longings after excitement or change of scene;—he could not settle himself,
      as on the four previous days, to his studies—his books were hateful to him. He wandered about
      his house—from room to room—as if in search of something which he could not define, and which
      he did not discover: he was pursued by ideas only dimly comprehensible, but which were at
      variance with his recently formed resolutions of purity and virtue. He was
      restless—discontented—uneasy.  
  At length he remembered his promise to return to Markham Place. The idea seemed to give him
      pleasure: he longed to see Ellen Monroe once more;—and yet he did not choose to make this
      admission to himself.  
   the house in which that delightful vision had burst, as it were, upon his sight
      on the previous evening. He was immediately conducted to the sick-room, where Ellen was
      sitting alone by her father's bed-side.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The old man slept.  
  Ellen rose and tripped lightly to meet him, a smile upon her charming, though pale and
      somewhat careworn countenance.  
  Laying her hand gently upon his, she whispered, "He will recover! Mr. Wentworth assures me
      that he will recover!"  
  "Most sincerely do I congratulate you upon this happy change," said Reginald. "I can well
      comprehend the feelings of an affectionate daughter who is allowed to hope that her parent may
      be restored to her."  
  "Yes, sir—and so good a father as mine!" added Ellen. "But it was all my fault——"  
  Then, suddenly checking herself, she cast down her eyes, and blushed deeply.  
  "Your fault, Miss Monroe?" repeated the rector, inspired with the most lively curiosity to
      penetrate the mystery of that self-accusation which he had now heard for the second time: "I
      cannot believe that any fault of yours—you whom I found hanging over your beloved
      father——"  
  "Let us speak no more upon that subject," interrupted Ellen, vexed with herself for having
      so unguardedly said what she had relative to the primal cause of her father's dangerous
      illness. "He will recover—something tells me that he will recover; and then—oh! how I will
      cherish him—how I will exert myself to make the remainder of his days happy!"  
  Her countenance became flushed as she spoke; and Reginald's glances were fixed, by a species
      of invincible fascination, upon the beautiful being in whose presence he stood.  
  He felt at that moment that he could sacrifice every thing for her love.  
  The surgeon and Richard Markham now entered the apartment; and Reginald received the thanks
      of our young hero for the attention which he had shown to the old man whose life had ceased to
      be despaired of.  
  After a somewhat protracted visit, the rector took his leave.  
   thrown her father upon a bed of sickness, whose only termination was at one time
      anticipated to be in death? what could have been the conduct of so fond a daughter to have
      produced such terrible results? Had she strayed from the path of virtue? This was the only
      feasible solution of such a mystery. Then a terrible pang of jealousy shot through his
      breast.  
  And why should he be jealous? What was that young girl to him?  
  He was jealous, because his ardent passions instinctively attracted him towards that
      beautiful creature;—and she was every thing to him, because she   was   so beautiful, and
      because he desired her!  
  Yes—a new flame now burnt in his heart—a flame as violent, as relentless, as fierce, as that
      which had already made him the slave of Lady Cecilia Harborough. But was he this time to
      become a slave or a victim?  
  He sat down and reasoned with himself. He endeavoured to crush the feelings of
      licentiousness which had been re-awakened in his heart.  
  But as vainly might he have endeavoured to lull the Maelstroom with a breath, or to subdue
      the rage of Vesuvius with a drop of water!  
  Such was his frame of mind, when an old woman sought his presence in the evening.  
  He had made it a rule, throughout his career, never to be difficult of access to those who
      wished to see him; and now that he felt the fabric of his fair fame to be tottering upon the
      verge of a precipice, he was not inclined to deviate from any of those outward forms which had
      aided in the consecration of his renown. He accordingly ordered his house keeper to admit the
      old woman to his presence.  
  The instant a hag, with a horribly wrinkled countenance, entered his study, he started—for
      that repulsive face was not altogether unknown to him.  
  Then, in another moment, he remembered that he had once seen her standing at the door of
      Lady Cecilia Harborough's abode in Tavistock Square; and that the glance which she had thrown
      upon him, on that occasion had for an instant struck him with sinister foreboding.  
  The old woman seated herself, and, without any preamble, said: "A man of great learning like
      you, reverend sir, cannot be otherwise than a man of great taste. This conviction has
      emboldened me to call upon you in preference to any other, relative to a most perfect work of
      art which fortune has thrown in my way."  
  Reginald gazed upon the old woman in speechless astonishment: her mysterious—indeed,
      incomprehensible language, induced him to believe that she was some unfortunate creature
      bereaved of her right senses.  
  "Listen to me for a few minutes, reverend sir," continued the hag, "and I will explain my
      meaning to you. Your charity, as well as your taste, is about to be appealed to."  
  "Speak," said the clergyman, somewhat impatiently, for he longed to be left alone again with
      his reflections, which had just assumed a most voluptuous complexion when his privacy was thus
      intruded upon.  
  "I will not detain you long—I will not detain you long," cried the old hag. "You must know,
      reverend sir, that a foreign sculptor—a poor Italian—came some few months ago to lodge at my
      humble dwelling. He was in the deepest distress, and had not the means to procure either
      marble or tools. I am very poor—very poor, myself, sir; but I could not see a fellow-creature
      starving. I bought him marble—and I bought him tools. He went to work, toiling day and night
      almost unweariedly; and a week ago he put the finishing stroke to the statue of a nymph. His
      art has enabled him, by means of colour, to give a life-like appearance to that admirable work
      of art; so that as you contemplate it, it seems to you as if the eyes were animated, the lips
      breathed, and the bosom rose and sank with respiration."  
  "And your artist is, no doubt, anxious to dispose of his statue?" said the rector.  
  "Precisely so," answered the hag. "I do not profess to be a judge myself; but I can speak of
      the effect which it produced upon me. When I saw it finished—standing upon its pedestal—I was
      about to address it as a living being."  
  "The effect must, then, be indeed striking," observed Reginald, with the voluptuous train of
      whose ideas this picture was well adapted to associate.  
  "Were you to judge for yourself, reverend sir," said the old hag, "you would find that I
      have not overrated the perfection of this masterpiece. The sculptor demands but a small price
      for his statue: it would be a charity were you to purchase it yourself, or recommend one of
      your friends to do so."  
  "When and where could I see this matchless work of art?" asked Reginald, whose curiosity was
      now strangely excited.  
  "At my own humble dwelling in Golden Lane is this statue concealed," replied the horrible
      old hag; "and no mortal eyes, save the sculptor's and mine own, have yet glanced upon it. If
      you will accompany me now, you can inspect it without delay."  
  Reginald referred to his watch, and found that it was past nine o'clock. The evening was
      pitch dark; and he did not, therefore, dread being seen in the company of that hideous old
      woman. Besides, even if he were—was he not often summoned at all hours to attend upon the last
      moments of some dying sinner?  
  "I will proceed with you at once to your abode," said the rector, after a few moments'
      hesitation.  
  "And you will do well," answered the hag; "for I can promise you a fine treat in what you
      are about to see."  
  While the rector stepped aside to put on his cloak and hat, a strange smile curled the lips
      of the wrinkled harridan; but as Reginald again turned towards her, her countenance instantly
      resumed its wonted composure.  
  They then went out together.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXI. THE STATUE.  
  THE old woman led the way at a rapid pace towards Golden Lane, the rector following her at a
      little distance.  
  Although there was nothing improbable in the tale which the hag had told him, and nothing
      improper in the step which he was taking,—nevertheless he experienced a vague and indefinable
      idea of doing wrong.  
  Something told him that he ought to retreat; and at the same time a superior influence urged
      him onward.  
  And, therefore, he followed the old woman.  
    
  "This is a strange place, you will say," observed the old woman, as she pushed open the door
      of one of the houses in that court,—"this is a strange place to contain such a treasure."  
  "And for that reason the treasure should not long be allowed to remain here," answered the
      clergyman.  
  The hag chuckled:—the sound was between a hollow laugh and a death-rattle; and it seemed
      horrible to the ears of Reginald Tracy.  
  The old woman then slowly ascended the narrow and dark staircase, until she reached the
      landing, where she drew a key from her pocket, and leisurely applied it to the lock of a
      door.  
  She fumbled about so long with the key, muttering to herself all the while, that Reginald
      thought she would never open the door, and he offered to assist her.  
  But at that moment the key turned in the lock, and the door was slowly opened.  
  The hag beckoned the rector to follow her; and he found himself in a tolerably large room,
      decently furnished, and with an excellent fire burning in the grate.  
  There were no candles lighted; nor did the hag offer to provide any;—but the contents of the
      apartment were plainly visible by means of the strong glare of the fire.  
  Heavy curtains of a dark colour covered the windows: the floor was carpeted; the chairs and
      tables were of plain but solid material; and a large mirror stood over the mantel.  
  At the farther end of the room was a second door, which was now closed, but evidently
      communicated with an inner chamber.  
  "I gave the poor artist the best rooms in my house," observed the hag, as she placed a chair
      near the fire for the rector. "The statue stands in the adjoining chamber; you can inspect it
      at once, while I——"  
  She mumbled the remainder of the sentence in such a way that it was wholly unintelligible to
      the rector, and then left the room.  
  For a few minutes Reginald stood before the fire, uncertain what course to pursue. He now
      began to think that the entire proceeding was somewhat extraordinary; and the singular manner
      in which the old hag had left him, inspired him with a feeling not entirely free from
      alarm.  
  But for what purpose could he have been inveigled thither, if it were not really to behold
      the marvellous statue? and, perhaps, after, all, the old woman had only left him in order to
      fetch the candles or to summon the artist? Moreover, had she not informed him that the statue
      was in the next room, and that he might inspect it at once? It was therefore easy to satisfy
      himself whether he had been deceived or not.  
  Ashamed of his transient fears, he threw off his hat and cloak, and advanced towards the
      door communicating with the inner chamber.  
  Even then he hesitated for a minute as his fingers grasped the handle; but, at length, he
      boldly entered the room.  
  The moment the door was thrown open, he perceived by the light of the fire which burned in
      the front apartment, that the inner one was a small and comfortably fitted-up bed-chamber. It
      was involved in a more than semi-obscurity; but not to such an extent as to conceal from
      Reginald Tracy's penetrating glance the semblance of a female form standing upon a low
      pedestal in the most remote corner of the room.  
  "I am not then deceived!" he exclaimed aloud, as he advanced nearer towards the statue.  
  By this time his eyes had become accustomed to the obscurity of the chamber, into which the
      glimmer of the fire threw a faint but mellowed light. Still, in somewhat bold relief, against
      the dark wall, stood the object of his interest,—seeming a beautiful model of a female form,
      the colouring of which was that of life. It was naked to the middle; the arms were gracefully
      rounded; and one hand sustained the falling drapery which, being also coloured, produced upon
      the mind of the beholder the effect of real garments.  
  Lost in wonder at the success with which the sculptor had performed his work,—and
      experiencing feelings of a soft and voluptuous nature,—Reginald drew closer to the statue. At
      that moment the light of the fire played upon its countenance; and it seemed to him as if the
      lips moved with a faint smile. Then, how was his surprise increased, when the conviction
      flashed to his mind that the face he was gazing upon was well known to him!  
  "O Cecilia, Cecilia!" he ejaculated aloud: "hast thou sent thy statue hither to compel me to
      fall at its feet and worship the senseless stone, while thou—the sweet original—art elsewhere,
      speculating perhaps upon the emotions which this phantasmagorian sport was calculated to
      conjure up within me! Ah! Cecilia, if thou wast resolved to subdue me once more—if thou
      couldst not rest until I became thy slave again,—oh! why not have invited me to meet thine own
      sweet self, instead of this speechless, motionless, passionless image,—a counterpart of thee
      only in external loveliness! Yes—there it is perfect:—the hair—the brow—the eyes—the mouth——
      Heavens! those lips seem to smile once more; those eyes sparkle with real fire!
      Cecilia—Cecilia—"  
  And Reginald Tracy was afraid—he scarcely knew wherefore: the entire adventure of the
      evening appeared to be a dream.  
  "Yes—yes!" he suddenly exclaimed, after having steadfastly contemplated the form before him
      for some moments,—standing at a distance of only three or four paces,—afraid to advance
      nearer, unwilling to retreat altogether,—"yes!" he exclaimed, "there is something more than
      mere senseless marble here! The eyes shoot fire—the lips smile—the bosom heaves—— Oh!
      Cecilia—Cecilia, it is yourself!"  
  As he spoke he rushed forward: the statue burst from chill marble into warmth and life;—it
      was indeed the beauteous but wily Cecilia—who returned his embrace and hung around his
      neck;—and the rector was again subdued—again enslaved!  
  rend="stars" unit="subchapter"/ 
  "And you will pardon me for the little stratagem which I adopted to bring you back to my
      arms?" said Cecilia.  
    
  "Reginald—beloved Reginald, didst thou imagine that I would resign thee so easily as thou
      wouldst have resigned me!" said Lady Cecilia. "Oh! you know not the heart of woman! There were
      but two alternatives for me—to bring you back, or to avenge myself on you."  
  "Avenge yourself!" exclaimed Reginald, starting.  
  "Yes," replied the wily creature, purposely adopting this discourse in order to enchain her
      lover in future; "a woman who fondly—madly loves, as I love, Reginald—will not so willingly
      part with the object of her affection! What,—could you suppose that I would surrender myself
      to you one day to be abandoned the next? No—never, never would I permit myself to be made the
      victim of a caprice! You wrote to me to implore me not to seek to see you again: I requested
      one last interview—you refused me my demand! Then I smarted sorely; but I said to myself,
       '  He loves me  '; and I added, '  I love him also  .' I accordingly resolved to
      attempt one grand effort to draw the anchorite from his cell. Chance threw in my way the old
      woman whom I sent to you, and in whose house we now are——"  
  "And what chance was that?" demanded Reginald, who entertained a strong and yet
      unaccountable aversion for that old hag.  
  "I will tell you all, dearest Reginald," answered Cecilia. "The evening after I received
      your cruel note desiring that all might end between us, I was going out with the intention of
      calling upon   you  —yes, of throwing myself at your feet——"  
  "Imprudent Cecilia!" murmured the rector, imprinting a kiss upon her lips.  
  "Yes—I was on the point of leaving my own abode to seek yours," continued Cecilia, "when I
      heard a hoarse and ominous voice muttering behind me. I looked round, and perceived that old
      wretch. She smiled—or rather, leered significantly, and said, '  Happy, happy lady—to enjoy
       the rector of Saint David's love!  '"  
  "She said   that  !" cried Reginald. "How could she divine what passed between us?"  
  "She has since explained to me how she one evening saw you leave my house—with a certain
      wildness in your manner——"  
  "True! true!" ejaculated the rector; "and the mind of the old woman being perhaps naturally
      evil, she conceived evil of others on the faintest suspicion."  
  "Exactly," answered Cecilia. "When she accosted me in that manner, I was so wretched, so
      miserable at the idea of being separated from you——"  
  "Sweetest creature! I was, indeed, ungrateful in return for so much love!"  
  "I was so unhappy that I was even glad to speak of thee to such a wretch as that old
      creature. Then she uttered words of consolation, and we talked together—talked for an hour in
      the cold, damp street——"  
  "Poor Cecilia!" murmured Reginald.  
  "What would I not dare for you?" said the wily woman, pressing him warmly in her snowy arms.
      "And now you can guess the rest—how the old woman proposed that some stratagem should be
      invented to bring the recreant back to my arms——"  
  "And you have thus blindly confided yourself—not only   your   secret, but
         mine   also—to a perfect stranger? O, Cecilia—was this prudent?" exclaimed Reginald in
      alarm.  
  "Does love know prudence?" asked the lady. "But fear not: gold will seal the lips of our
      confidant; and better is it for her obscure dwelling to be the scene of our loves than for our
      caresses to be exchanged at my abode, where the intrusion of a servant at any moment——"  
  "True!" interrupted Reginald. "And yet upon what a fearful abyss does my reputation now seem
      to tremble!"  
  "  Yours!  " ejaculated Lady Cecilia, almost scornfully,—for she was resolved to put an
      end to these repinings on the part of her lover: "Oh! can you be so selfish as to think only
      of yourself? Should you be detected, you are ruined only in your profession, and not as a
      man—for with the man there is no dishonour in illicit love;—but if I be detected, am I not
      lost as a wife, and as a woman? Will not all the wrath of an avenging society light upon me?
      For it is upon us—upon poor woman—that contumely, and shame, and disgrace fall!"  
  "Forgive me, dearest Cecilia," murmured the rector, clasping the frail beauty in his arms.
      "I have been unjust to you—I have thought only of myself, unmindful of the immense sacrifice
      that is made by thee! But, forgive me, I say—and never again shall the expression of my
      cowardly alarms—my egotistical terrors impair our happiness! I love you—I love you, my
      Cecilia: Oh! heaven knows how sincerely—how madly I love you!"  
  "And you will love me always?" whispered Cecilia.  
  "Always! for ever—and ever!" answered the rector, now intoxicated—delirious with joy, and
      reckless of all consequences.  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  *   *  *  *  *  
  The barrier was now completely broken down; and the rector gave way to the violence of the
      passion which hurried him along.  
  That man, so full of vigour, and in the prime of his physical strength, abandoned himself
      without restraint to the fury of those desires which burnt the more madly—the more wildly,
      from having been so long pent-up.  
  Day after day did he meet his guilty paramour; and on each occasion did he reflect less upon
      the necessity of caution. He passed hours and hours together with her at her abode; and at
      length he ventured to receive her at his own residence, when his housekeeper had retired to
      rest.  
  But he did not neglect his professional duties on the Sabbath;—and he now became an
      accomplished hypocrite. He ascended the pulpit as usual, and charmed thousands with his
      discourse as heretofore. Indeed his eloquence improved, for the simulated earnestness which
      displaced the tone of heart-felt conviction that he had once experienced, seemed more
      impassioned, and was more impressive than the natural ebullition of his feelings.  
  Thus as he progressed in the ways of vice, his reputation increased in sanctity.  
  But the moment he escaped from the duties of his profession, he flew to the arms of her who
      had seduced him from his career of purity; and so infatuated was he with her who had been his
      tutoress in the ways of amorous pleasure, that he joyfully placed his purse at the disposal of
      her extravagance.  
  Thus was Lady Cecilia triumphant in all points with regard to the once immaculate, but now
      sensual and voluptuous rector of Saint David's.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXII. AN OLD FRIEND.  
   would be undertaken in respect to her by the Resurrection Man.  
  Having bade farewell to Mrs. Chichester at Cambridge Heath, Margaret Flathers, with her
      well-filled bag under her arm, hastened along the road leading to Hackney.  
  She cared not which direction she pursued, provided she placed a considerable distance
      between herself and London; for so terrible was the dread under which she laboured from her
      knowledge of the desperate character and profound cunning of the Resurrection Man, that she
      conceived it to be impossible for her to be safe so long as she was within even a wide circuit
      of the great metropolis.  
  Having passed through Hackney, she speedily left the main road, and struck at random across
      the fields, careful only to pursue a course which she felt convinced must remove her farther
      and further from London.  
  Unweariedly for two long hours did she hurry on her way, until she fell, overcome with
      weariness, beneath a large tree, whose gigantic leafless boughs creaked ominously in the
      darkness over her head.  
  The night was fearfully cold—the grass was damp—and the wind moaned gloomily through the
      trees.  
  The Rattlesnake was hungry and thirsty; but she had not food nor drink to satisfy the
      cravings of nature. In that solitude,—without a light gleaming through the obscurity as a
      beacon of hospitality,—she felt that her gold was then and there no better to her than the
      cold soil upon which she rested her weary limbs.  
  At length, worn out by fatigue and want, she fell asleep.  
  When she awoke the sun was shining.  
  But where was she?  
  Close at hand burnt a blazing fire, fed with wood and turf, and sending up a dense smoke
      into the fine frosty air. To an iron rod, fastened horizontally to two upright stakes, was
      suspended a huge caldron, the bubbling of which reached her ears, and the savour of whose
      contents was wafted most agreeably to her nostrils.  
  Grouped around the fire, and anxiously watching the culinary process, were two women, four
      men, and a boy.  
  Two of the men were not characterised by that swarthy complexion and those black elf-locks
      which distinguished their two male companions, the women, and the boy.  
  Of the two man thus especially alluded to, as not being of the gipsy race, to which their
      companions evidently belonged,—the first was about forty years of age and possessed a
      herculean form. His countenance was weather-beaten and indicated the endurance of great
      hardship: indeed, he had been abroad to far-off climes, and had gone through privations of an
      almost incredible nature. He was, however, taciturn and reserved, and ever seemed brooding
      upon some secret grief or absorbing sentiment of a darker nature: nevertheless, the little he
      had chosen to tell his present companions relative to his former history had obtained for him
      the name of the   Traveller  ; and by no other appellation was he known amongst them.  
  The other man, whose complexion proclaimed him not to be of the Egyptian race, was
      apparently verging towards thirty; and, although slight, he was well-built and uncommonly
      active. His name will transpire presently.  
  The elder of the two male gipsies was a man of nearly eighty years of age. His hair was as
      white as driven snow; and his bald head was protected from the cold wind by only a thin faded
      green silk skull-cap. His beard, as white as his hair, hung down over his breast, and formed a
      strange contrast with his swarthy countenance and piercing black eyes, the fires of which were
      not dimmed with age. This individual was the King of the Gipsies, and rejoiced in the assumed
      name of Zingary.  
  The other male gipsy was the King's son, and was a fine tall handsome fellow of about
      thirty-five, dark as a Spaniard, and with fine Roman features.  
  The two women were also very discrepant in respect to age: one was nearly sixty, and was the
      Queen of the Gipsies, her assumed name being Aischa: the other was a pretty brunette, with
      fine laughing eyes and brilliant teeth, and was the wife of Morcar, the King's son. Her name
      was Eva; and she was the mother of the boy before alluded to, and who was between eight and
      nine years old.  
  We have thought it as well to state all these particulars at once in order to avoid
      confusion; although the Rattlesnake was not immediately aware of them.  
  When the Rattlesnake awoke up and surveyed this strange groups, she instinctively felt for
      her bag of gold; and a scream of dismay escaped her lips when she perceived that it was
      gone.  
  A loud burst of laughter emanated from the gipsies,—for by this general name we shall
      denominate the band, although two members of it were not of the race;—and the
      fair-complexioned man, whose name we have not yet stated, exclaimed, "Don't alarm yourself, my
      dear young woman: we have banked the rag for fear that
      a buzman  target="#ENG18460_N087" [87]   should have nabbed you with it in your
      possession. But you shall have your reg'lars out of it, mind, whenever you want to pursue your
      way. Only, as you've happened to trespass upon the dominions of his high mightiness King
      Zingary, you must pay toll."  
  While this individual was speaking, the Rattlesnake, who had first been struck by the tone
      of his voice, considered him with great attention, and seemed to forget the loss she had
      sustained in the interest with which she contemplated the person addressing her.  
  At length, when he had ceased to speak, she started from the ground, advanced towards him,
      and exclaimed in an excited tone, "Have not you and I met before?"  
  "Not unlikely, my dear," was the reply. "Perhaps under the screw—or in the Holy Land, which I visit from
      time to time—or else in the bottom of a coal-hell  target="#ENG18460_N090" [90]   in
      the county of Stafford."  
  "It is! it is!" ejaculated the Rattlesnake, ready to spring towards him, and throw her arms
      around his neck. "Don't you remember me now?"  
  "Remember you?" repeated the man slowly; and he gazed upon the Rattlesnake's countenance for
      some moments;—then, as if a sudden light dawned in upon him, he started from the ground in his
      turn, crying, "May I never drink rum slim  target="#ENG18460_N091" [91]   again if it
      isn't my old flame, Meg Flathers!"  
  And they flew into each other's arms.  
  "Your Majesty," said Skilligalee,—for this was the individual whose name we for a moment
      suppressed,—"Your Majesty," he exclaimed, when this embrace was over, "allow me to present to
      you my wife, the lovely and accomplished Margaret Flathers."  
  "She is welcome," said Zingary gravely. "Young woman, sit down and be welcome. We ask no
      questions whether you are our comrade's splice  target="#ENG18460_N092" [92]   not: it is enough for us that he acknowledges you as such. Aischa—welcome a
      daughter; Eva—greet a sister."  
  The old and the young gipsy women advanced towards the Rattlesnake and took each a hand.  
  "I welcome you, daughter," said Aischa.  
  "I greet you, sister," said Eva.  
  They then each kissed her forehead, and resumed their seats close by the fire.  
  "And I greet you too, my gal," exclaimed Morcar, thrusting out his large muscular hand, and
      giving that of the Rattlesnake a friendly squeeze.  
  "And now sit down," said the King, "and moisten your chaffer."  target="#ENG18460_N093" [93]    
  "Ah! do," cried Morcar; "for you must want it after sleeping underneath that tree on the top
      of the hill, exposed to the cold wind and damp."  
  This observation led the Rattlesnake to cast a glance around her; and she found that the
      gipsy-camp was at the bottom of a deep valley, on the brow of which stood the tree to which
      the King's son pointed, and beneath which she had sunk exhausted on the preceding night.  
  Meantime Skilligalee had visited a covered van, which stood at a little distance, and near
      which an old horse was quietly munching the contents of a capacious nose-bag; and in a few
      moments he returned, bearing with him a large stone bottle that might have held two gallons of
      liquor.  
  From his pocket he produced a small horn-cup and, pouring forth a bumper of rum, he handed
      it to the queen.  
  "No—there first," laconically said Aischa, pointing towards the Rattlesnake, who was
      accordingly compelled to drain the horn before her majesty.  
  "Good—isn't it?" asked Skilligalee, with a sly wink.  
  "I felt very cold—and it has revived me," replied the Rattlesnake.  
  "And the contents of that pot will put you right altogether," said Skilligalee, pointing to
      the caldron that was simmering over the fire. "Beg pardon, majesty," he added, turning towards
      the queen, and pouring forth another dram.  
  Aischa drank the contents of the horn-cup without winking; and Skilligalee proceeded to do
      the honours of the bottle to the rest of the company.  
  Having served the king, Eva, and Morcar, he approached the Traveller, who had sat a silent
      spectator of all that passed.  
  "Now, friend, your turn is come."  
  "Thank you," said the man, drily; and having tossed off the liquor, he muttered, grinding
      his teeth savagely, "And some one else's turn must come too, sooner or later."  
  "Always brooding upon the same thing," exclaimed the laughing, light-hearted
      Skilligalee.  
  "And if you had been served by a villain as I was," returned the Traveller, brutally, "you
      would long for the time to come to settle up accounts with him. Thank my stars! we shall be in
      London to-morrow, and then—then——"  
  The remainder of the man's words were lost in mutterings, which, to judge by the terrific
      workings of his countenance, the violence with which he ground his teeth, and the convulsive
      rage indicated by the manner in which he clenched his fist, must have been a direful
      portent.  
  But a few words which he had uttered, struck sudden dismay to the heart of the
      Rattlesnake.  
  "Are you going to London?" she whispered, in a tone of alarm, to Skilligalee, who had now
      resumed his seat by her side.  
  "Ah! indeed are we, my dear," was the reply. "The royal palace in the Holy Land is prepared
      for our reception; and this night at nine o'clock does his majesty make his triumphant entry,
      disguised as a timber-merchant,  target="#ENG18460_N094" [94]   into that part of his
      dominions."  
  "To London!" gasped the Rattlesnake. "Then—then—I cannot accompany you—I——"  
  "What have you to fear?" demanded Skilligalee. "Have you not me to defend you individually,
      and his majesty's protection to shield you generally?"  
  "No—no," returned Margaret Flathers; "I cannot—will not return to London. I hate the place—I
      detest it—I abhor it! I am not even now as far from it as I could wish—not half."  
  "Far from it?" ejaculated Skilligalee, with a merry laugh. "Why, you can almost hear the
      sounds of the cabs and hackney-coaches where we are now."  
  "What!" cried Margaret. "How far are we from London? tell me—speak!"  
  "When you are on the top of that place where I found you sleeping early this morning,"
      answered Skilligalee, "you can see Hornsey Wood on the next hill—about two miles off."  
  "My God! then in spite of all my care last night, I must have gone a strange round," said
      Margaret, speaking rather to herself than to her companion.  
  "Ah! I see how it is, Meg," observed Skilligalee; "you are in trouble about that gold.
      Well—never mind, old gal—so much the more reason for me to protect you. Now I tell you what it
      is: not all the buzmen in London can find you out at our crib in the Holy Land; and so you
      shall come along with us, and you shall keep in doors the whole time: we'll take care of you.
      What do you think of that?"  
  "Skilligalee," whispered Margaret, "I am not afraid of the police: they don't trouble
      themselves about me. But there is a certain man that seeks my life——"  
  "Oh! if that's all," interrupted her companion, "make yourself perfectly easy. You don't
      know yet what defences and fortifications the king has got to his palace: a regiment of
       swaddles  target="#ENG18460_N095" [95]   would never storm it, or take it by
      surprise."  
  "And you really think that I shall be safe?" asked the Rattlesnake, hesitating; for these
      assurances of protection began to please her more than the idea of being compelled to wander
      alone about the country.  
  "Think!" cried Skilligalee, "I don't think—I'm certain. Trust to me—and all will be right.
      Besides, do you not pay toll to his majesty? and where can you find a more powerful protector
      than King Zingary? You will see what he can do, when once we arrive at the palace in the Holy
      Land."  
  "But—but—will he keep all my gold?" asked the Rattlesnake, hesitatingly.  
  "Not all, my dear," answered Skilligalee. "One third goes to the Box;  target="#ENG18460_N096" [96]   another third to be divided amongst all us here who picked
      you up; and the other remains at your own disposal. Are you content?"  
   unwilling, moreover, to pay handsomely for the protection promised to her.  
  While this conversation took place between the Rattlesnake and Skilligalee, the two women
      had prepared the repast. The king had in the meantime amused himself with what, in his own
      lingo, he termed "cocking a broseley;"  target="#ENG18460_N097" [97]  —the boy fetched
      the platters, knives, forks, spoons, and other articles necessary for the meal, from the
      van;—Morcar went to look after the horse;—and the Traveller was buried in a profound reverie.
      Thus the discourse of Margaret Flathers and her companion was as private and unrestrained as
      if no one had been by.  
  And now the immediate vicinity of the fire presented an animated and even comfortable
      appearance. Upon a huge earthenware dish was piled a stew, which sent forth a most inviting
      odour. A goose, a sucking-pig, three fowls, a couple of rabbits, and an immense quantity of
      vegetables, greeted the eye and pleased the olfactory nerve; and a couple of jolly brown
      quartern loaves flanked the feast. Every guest was furnished with a horn snicker:  target="#ENG18460_N098" [98]   salt, pepper, and mustard were also provided, to give a
      zest to the food. Then Skilligalee paid another visit to the van,—for he, it appears, was
      butler in ordinary to his Majesty King Zingary,—and returned laden with a second enormous
      bottle, filled to the bung with the very best malt liquor that ever aided to immortalise
      Barclay and Perkins.  
  "All is ready," said Eva, in a respectful manner to her father-in-law, the King.  
  Zingary stroked down his beard in a majestic manner, murmured a grace in a language totally
      incomprehensible to the Rattlesnake, and then helped himself to a portion of the mess.  
  This was the signal for the attack; and Margaret Flathers was by no means sorry to receive
      upon her platter, from the gallant and attentive Skilligalee, a good proportion of the savoury
      comestibles.  
  The Traveller did his duty in respect to the repast; but he seldom joined in the gay
      discourse which seasoned it, apparently brooding over the one absorbing idea of vengeance,
      which now seemed to constitute the only object for which that man lived.  
  Margaret Flathers could not help noticing the great respect which all present paid to the
      King and Queen of the Gipsies. Their majesties joined familiarly in the conversation; and it
      was evident from their remarks, especially those of Zingary, that they had travelled over
      every inch of Great Britain, not a crevice or corner of which was unknown to them. Margaret
      also gathered from their discourse that they had visited foreign countries in their youth; and
      Zingary boasted more than once of the intimate terms upon which he stood with the sovereigns
      of the Gipsies of Spain and Bohemia.  
  Morcar listened to his father with deep attention and marked respect; and expressed, with
      deference, his own opinions upon the various topics of discourse. Eva spoke little, but she
      was an interested listener; and from time to time she bestowed a caress upon her boy, or
      exchanged a glance or a smile of affection with her husband.  
  In a word, the members of the royal family of the gipsies appeared to exist upon the most
      comfortable terms with each other.  
  When the meal was over, Skilligalee beckoned Margaret Flathers aside, and said, "We will go
      and seat ourselves under the brow of yonder hill, and pass an hour in conversation. I have
      much to tell you, and you must have something to tell me."  
  "I have—I have indeed!" exclaimed Margaret, as she accompanied Skilligalee to the spot
      indicated, where they seated themselves on some large blocks of wood that lay there half
      buried in the soil.  
  "I have often read and heard of the King of the Gipsies," said Margaret; "but I always
      imagined that he was a fabulous character. Is that old man yonder really the King; or has he
      only assumed the distinction by way of amusement?"  
  "He is as much the sovereign of the gipsies, Margaret," answered Skilligalee, with unusual
      solemnity, "as Victoria is the Queen of England; and more so, for the whole tribe pays him a
      blind and implicit obedience."  
  "How came the king and his family with such strange names as those by which I heard them
      call each other?" inquired the Rattlesnake.  
  "The Gipsies in England are of two distinct races, although united under one ruler," replied
      Skilligalee. "They are Egyptian and Bohemian, and the royal family always adopts names likely
      to please both parties:   Zingary   and   Aischa   are, amongst the gipsies,
      supposed to be Egyptian names;   Morcar   and   Eva   are held as Bohemian. The
      parents who have Egyptian names, give Bohemian ones to their children; so that the rulers of
      the tribe are alternately looked upon as Egyptian and Bohemian."  
  "Then Morcar and Eva will be king and queen at the death of Zingary?" said the
      Rattlesnake.  
  "Just so," replied Skilligalee.  
  "Now tell me, who is that moody, melancholy, scowling fellow that you call the Traveller?"
      continued Margaret.  
  "We know but little of him," was the answer. "He joined us—or rather, we picked him up in a
      state of starvation, a few miles from Liverpool, about six weeks or two months ago; and the
      king has allowed him to tramp with us, because he is without friends or money. Moreover, he
      was anxious to get to London; and, for some reason or other, he is afraid to be seen on the
      high-roads, or in the towns and villages. So our wandering life just suited his convenience;
      and he feels himself safe in our company. He seldom speaks about his own affairs; but he has
      said enough to enable us to understand that he has suffered deeply in consequence of the
      treachery of some person in whom he had put confidence, or who was his pal in former times;
      and he is going up to London with the hope of finding out his enemy. He seems a desperate
      fellow; and I should not like to be the person that has offended him."  
  "He is not a gipsy?" said Margaret, interrogatively.  
  "No—not a whit more than myself," answered Skilligalee; "and I dare say he will leave us in
      London. As he was with us when we banked your rag, he will have his reg'lars, and that will
      set him up."  
  "And you have no idea what he has been, or who he is?" inquired the Rattlesnake.  
  "We never ask questions, Meg; we listen to all that is told us, but we never seek to pry
      into secrets. The king was quite contented with seeing your well filled bag; but if you
      remained in his company for a hundred years from this time, he would never ask you how you
      came by it. All impertinent curiosity is against the laws of the Zingarees."  
  "Zingarees! who are they?" exclaimed the Rattlesnake.  
   sluicing his bolt  target="#ENG18460_N099" [99]   and cocking his
      broseley, he has told us strange stories of foreign countries, so that even old Zingary, who
      has travelled a good deal, has turned up the whites of his eyes. But there is no doubt that
      the sulky stranger has seen much, and gone through much also. He talks of the Cape of Good
      Hope and Cape Horn, and Australia, and heaven only knows what distant places, almost as well
      as you and I should about the coal-hells in Staffordshire."  
  "And does he mean to kill the man that has offended him?" demanded the Rattlesnake.  
  "I'll warrant he does," was the answer; "for all that he possessed in the world, when we
      picked him up nearly frozen to death in a pit where he had crept for shelter,—all that he
      possessed besides his rags, was a long dagger, which he calls a poniard: it is as bright as
      silver, and so flexible that you can bend it double without breaking it. So determined is he
      to bury it some half dozen inches in his enemy's heart, that he wouldn't even sell it, it
      appears, when famishing for a morsel of bread."  
  "He seems a desperate-looking fellow," observed the Rattlesnake. "I never beard of so
      terrible a man—except one; and hell doesn't contain a greater demon than him. But I will tell
      you all about that another time: you must answer me my questions first."  
  "Oh! of course," exclaimed Skilligalee, with a merry laugh; "because you are the lady, and I
      am the gentleman. What else do you want to know?"  
  "Why, the king is going up to London?"  
  "He always does at this season of the year, to meet the chiefs of the different districts,
      and settle a good deal of business. But you will see all about it when once we get up into the
      Holy Land—that is, if you've made up your mind to go with us."  
  "I have," answered the Rattlesnake. "And now tell me all that has happened to you since we
      parted in that hurried manner—you know how."  
  "Well—I will," cried Skilligalee: "so listen attentively, as all story-tellers say."  
  Then, clearing his throat with a loud hem, he commenced his narrative in the following
      manner.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXIII. SKILLIGALEE'S HISTORY.  
  "You remember the day we parted, after having lived together for nearly six months. I gave
      you two guineas to find your way up to London, where I recommended you to proceed to seek your
      fortune; and I told you that I had as much left for myself, to help me to get away from a part
      of the country where the numerous burglaries I had committed had put all the constables on the
      alert after me. But in reality I had but two or three shillings remaining in my pocket. I knew
      that if I told you the real state of my finances, you would not accept so much as I had given
      you; but I was afraid that you might be implicated in my difficulties, and so I was determined
      that you should have sufficient to convey you clear away from Staffordshire.  
  "Well, when we parted, I walked along the road leading away from the village, as
      disconsolate as might be; and yet you know that I am not naturally of a very mournful
      disposition. It was nine o'clock in the evening, if you remember, when I put you into the
      waggon that was to take you to London. I went on until I reached a lonely public-house, by the
      way-side. It was then eleven o'clock; and I was both tired and hungry. I entered the   Three
       Compasses   (which was the sign of the public-house), and sat down in the parlour. There
      was another traveller there—a short stout man, with a very red face, and who was committing
      desperate havoc upon a large cheese and loaf, from which he, however, occasionally diverted
      his attention, in order to pay his respects to a pot of porter. I ordered some refreshment,
      and inquired if I could be accommodated with a bed. The old widow woman who kept the place,
      said that the only bed she had to spare was already engaged by the gentleman then at supper,
      but that I might sleep in the hay-loft if I chose. Thereupon the red-faced man gave a long
      stare at me, shrugged his shoulders, and went on eating. I suppose that my appearance was not
      respectable enough to induce him to resign half of his bed for my accommodation; and, indeed,
      I was dreadfully shabby—almost in rags, as you may well remember. So I accepted the offer of
      the hay-loft; and retired to that place as soon as I had finished my supper.  
  "But as I clambered up the ladder to my roosting-place, my unfortunate trousers caught a
      nail; and one leg was split completely down to the foot. I was now in a most wretched dilemma,
      not knowing how I should contrive to mend my luckless inexpressibles. But I soon fell asleep,
      in spite of my unpleasant reflections; and when I awoke, the dawn of the mild spring morning
      was just breaking. I examined my garment, and was reduced to despair at its appearance. At
      length I resolved to dress myself, go down stairs, borrow a needle and thread of the old
      woman, and be my own tailor. When I descended into the yard, I found a lad busily employed in
      cleaning a pair of boots, while a pair of trousers lay upon a bench, neatly folded up, having
      evidently gone through the process of brushing. I immediately recognised the stout drab
      pantaloons which the red-faced man wore on the preceding evening; and my eyes dwelt longingly
      upon them. In reply to my questions, the boy said that his grandmother (the old widow who kept
      the public-house) was not up yet, but that he could get me a needle and thread, as he knew
      where she kept her work-bag. I begged him to do so; and he very obligingly went into the house
      for that purpose.  
  "The moment he had disappeared I snatched up the red-faced man's drab trousers in one hand,
      and his excellent pair of bluchers in the other: then, without waiting to look behind me, I
      jumped over the fence which separated the stable-yard from the fields, and was speedily
      scampering across the open country as fast as my legs would carry me. When I had run about a
      mile, I reached a little grove, situated on the bank of a stream: and there I halted.  
  "The red-faced gentleman's boots were a wonderful improvement upon my old broken shoes; but
      his pantaloons fitted somewhat awkwardly, being a world too wide round the waist, and a foot
      too short in the legs. However, they were better than my old tattered unmentionables, and I
      could not complain that they were dear!  
  "I pursued my way along the banks of the stream until past mid-day, when I came to a
      village, where I halted at a public-house to take some refreshment. My two or three shillings
      were still unchanged, because I had not paid a single penny for my entertainment at the
         Three Compasses   But my attention was speedily averted from that topic to the conversation of two
      old men, who were sitting at another table in the tap-room.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "'So poor old Joe Dobbin's scapegrace nephew is coming home at last?' said one.—'Yea,'
      replied the other: 'he has been seeking his fortune, as a sailor, all over the world, for the
      last ten years; and now that he hasn't a penny, and is a-weary of a sea-faring life, he has
      written to say that he is coming home to his poor old blind uncle.'—'Ah! Tom Tittlebat has
      been a wild 'un in his day, I'll answer for it,' said the first old man. 'But his uncle seems
      quite delighted at the idea of seeing him again,' observed the other old fellow.—'He says that
      he shall persuade upon Tom to stay at home and take care of him; and then he'll be able to
      turn away cross old Margery, who robs him and ill-treats him in a shameful manner.'  
  "I devoured every word of this conversation; and my mind was instantly made up. I
      accordingly joined in the discourse, called for some ale, of which I made the two old fellows
      partake, and so artfully pumped them that in half an hour I knew all about old blind Dobbin
      and his graceless nephew Tom Tittlebat, without having appeared even to ask a single question
      concerning them. At length, when I had my lesson complete. I burst out into a hearty laugh,
      and cried out, 'What, Master Buckley, don't you remember me then? and you, good Master
      Dottings, am I quite a stranger to   you   too?' The old men stared; and then, with
      another hearty laugh I boldly announced myself to be Tom Tittlebat. You should have seen the
      old fellows—how glad they were! One swore that he had all along suspected who I was; and the
      other vowed that my features were unchanged since he last saw me, although my face was a
      little tanned! Then I called for more ale, and plied the old boys well, so that they might
      help to favour the imposture which I meditated.  
  "Away we went to the cottage inhabited by old Dobbin, my two aged companions really showing
      me the way, while I pretended to be quite familiar with it. The moment we came in sight of my
      alleged uncle's residence, old Buckley and Dottings (whose names I had found out from their
      own discourse with me) hobbled forward, exclaiming, 'Here's the prodigal returned, Brother
      Dobbin!'—'Kill the fatted calf, Brother Dobbin!' And in a few moments I was in my alleged
      uncle's arms.  
   Margery, the old man's housekeeper, was compelled to bustle about to prepare a
      copious supper—a duty which she performed with a very bad grace, and with sundry suspicious
      leers and side-glances towards me. I took no notice of her ill-humour, but rattled away about
      my adventures by sea and land till the three old men were quite astounded at the marvellous
      things I had seen and the tremendous perils that I had escaped. Buckley and Dottings were
      invited to stay to supper; and a merry meal we had. When the things were cleared away, I
      undertook to brew the punch, assuring the old folks that the compound would be made according
      to a recipe which I had obtained from the king of the Inaccessible Islands.  
  "Well, the punch was made; and there it stood steaming in an enormous bowl upon the table. I
      was determined to enjoy myself; for I purposed to pack up every thing portable during the
      night and decamp before dawn, for fear that the rightful nephew should return before I had
      turned my trick to advantage. So I filled the tumblers, and plied the punch to such an extent
      that even old Margery's ill-humour was overcome by the gaiety of the scene; and she consented
      to sit down and join us.  
  "I was just in the middle of a most exciting account of a conflict which I had with a shark
      at the South Pole, when a loud knock at the door resounded through the house. Margery hastened
      to obey the summons; and Old Dobbin observed, 'I shouldn't be surprised if this was my cousin
      George, for I wrote to him the day before yesterday to say that my nephew Tom was coming home,
      and invited him down to pass a week or so on the happy occasion.' I heard this remark; but the
      punch had produced such an effect upon me, that I felt no uneasiness. I thought I should be
      able to get over cousin George as easily as I had done Uncle Dobbin; and so I amused myself by
      filling the glasses round from the second bowl, which had only just been mixed.  
  "Meantime Dame Margery, having answered the door, returned, exclaiming, 'It be Master
      George,' and followed by a person whom her tall gaunt form in some measure hid from me until
      they were both close to the table. Then what a dreadful scene took place! In cousin George, to
      my horror and dismay, I beheld the red-faced man that I'd met at the   Three Compasses  ,
      and whose drab trousers adorned me at that very moment!  
  "I leapt from my seat, and was making as fast as I could to the door, when cousin George
      shouted out, 'Holloa! who have we here?'—and, springing forward, he collared me in a moment.
      'What's the matter? what's the matter?' demanded old Dobbin.—'My stars! what's this mean?'
      exclaimed Dame Margery.—'Why, it means that this fellow is a robber, and has got on my
      breeches and boots!' vociferated cousin George, growing purple in the face with rage, and
      giving me a violent shake.—'Your breeches!' cried old Buckley.—'Your boots!' mumbled old
      Dottings.—'Yes, to be sure!' shouted the red-faced man. 'Go and fetch a constable.'—Why, you
      don't mean that nephew Tom has done this?' said old Dobbin.—'Nephew Tom!' exclaimed cousin
      George, letting go his hold upon my coat: 'no!'—'But I say   yes  , though,' said I,
      putting a bold face upon the matter: 'I knew you directly when I met you at the   Three
       Compasses   last night, and only did it by way of a lark.'  
  "But this turn did not serve me. While I spoke, cousin George surveyed me attentively; and,
      again rushing upon me, he roared out, 'He's a cheat! he's an impostor! Tom has a mole on the
      left cheek, and he's none: Tom has a cut over the right eye, and he hasn't. Go for a
      constable.'—'Well, I thought all along he was a rogue,' cried Dame Margery, hurrying off to
      execute this most unpleasant order.  
  "My case now seemed desperate; and not a moment was to be lost. Casting my eyes rapidly
      around in search of some weapon of defence or avenue of escape, I espied the punch-bowl, three
      parts full of steaming liquor, within my reach. With the rapidity of lightning I seized it,
      and dashed it over like a hat upon cousin George's head. He uttered a terrific yell as the hot
      punch streamed down him; and I precipitated myself from the room as if a blood-hound was at my
      heels.  
  "Away I scudded—a hue and cry after me: but I ran like a race-horse; and in a few minutes
      was beyond the sound of the '  Stop, thief  ,' raised by cousin George's ominous
      voice.  
  "That was an excellent adventure; I have often and often laughed at it since, and wondered
      whether the real Tom Tittlebat ever did return. At all events I kept cousin George's trousers
      and boots; but they got me into more scrapes yet.  
  "I strolled along through the fields, diverting myself with reflection upon the past, and
      pondering upon what might be in store for the future, until I reached a large market town,
      where I went boldly to the tap-room of the principal tavern. I ordered an excellent supper,
      with plenty of ale, feeling convinced that some lucky adventure would enable me to pay for my
      cheer—for I had now but one shilling left, the remainder of my money having been spent at the
      inn where I met the two old acquaintances of blind Dobbin.  
  "The tap-room was filled with people; and the conversation was pretty general. There was,
      however, one individual who took no part in the discourse, but sate apart in an obscure corner
      smoking his pipe. He did not even appear to listen to what was said around him; but maintained
      his eyes moodily fixed on the floor. His horrible sallow complexion, deep wrinkles, and large
      mustache, gave him an aspect very far from inviting. Nevertheless, I endeavoured to enter into
      conversation with him—simply, I suppose, because he appeared to be so reserved, and my
      curiosity was excited with respect to him; but he threw upon me a look of the most sovereign
      contempt, and made me no answer. I shrank back from the fierce glance of his dark black eyes,
      and felt abashed and cowed—I scarcely knew why. But soon recovering my usual good spirits, I
      also called for my pipe and my pot, and mingled in the conversation. Rattling away with my
      anecdotes, and now and then singing a snatch of a song, I speedily made myself so agreeable to
      the drovers and waggoners assembled in the tap-room, that they called for punch and invited me
      to partake of it with them.  
  "At twelve o'clock the waiter came in, and bawled out, '  Any more orders, gentlemen? any
       more orders?  ' No answer being given, he said, '  I will receive each gentleman's
       account, if you please.   thought that they glared with fiendish delight, as if they had penetrated my
      secret. I felt ashamed—and my eyes fell beneath the demon-like glance. In another moment the
      waiter stood before me. 'Now, sir—if you please, sir: steak, one shilling—taturs, penny—bread,
      penny—fourteen-pence; two pints of ale, eight-pence—screw of bakker, penny—pot porter,
      four-pence,—that's two-and-three, sir.' I sat aghast for a few minutes, and then began to
      fumble in my pockets, the waiter every moment growing more impatient. At that instant the
      sallow-faced stranger pointed to the bench on which I was sitting, and said in a surly tone,
      'No wonder, young man, that you can't find your money in your pocket, when you let it roll
      about in all directions.' He then sank back into his corner, and seemed to take no more notice
      of me or my concerns. I thought he had a mind to banter me; but, turning my eyes towards the
      place which he had indicated, to my surprise I perceived a couple of half-crowns lying there.
      I am sure the waiter must have seen how my countenance brightened up with sudden joy; but he
      made no remark; and I paid my bill. He then passed on to the sallow-faced man, who settled his
      own account, and hastily left the room, without condescending to cast another glance upon
      me.  
  "I was at a loss to make out whether the sallow-faced stranger had done a most generous
      action, or whether some one else had dropped the money there, and he had really fancied it to
      be mine. I did not, however, lose much time in conjecture; but, taking the whole affair for a
      good omen, ordered another glass, and then went jovially to bed. I awoke early, had some
      breakfast, and went out to take a stroll in the town. I naturally directed my steps towards
      the market-place, knowing that it was market-day, and hoping to find a watch or a purse in the
      crowd.  
  "Elbowing my way through the graziers, drovers, and butchers, I got into the middle of the
      market, and there a most extraordinary spectacle met my eyes. A man was leading a woman along
      by a halter, which was tied round her neck. At first, I thought that a public execution was
      about to take place; but, seeing no gibbet—no police—no sheriffs—and no clergyman,—and
      observing, at a second glance, that the woman was giggling and laughing very much unlike a
      person just going to be hanged, I was at a loss to account for so strange a sight. The crowd
      appeared to enjoy the fun—for fun it evidently was—excessively; and, at length, I learnt that
       '  Bob Fosset, the dog's-meat-man, was about to sell his wife to Will Wyatt, the
       costermonger.  ' And, sure enough, such was the fact. Bob Fossett led his wife—a
      comely-looking woman enough—to the centre of the market, and tied the halter to a sheep-pen.
      He then mounted on the top bar of the pen, and shouted out: '  I hereby put up my wife,
       Jenny Fossett, to public auction; and I declare that she shall go to the highest
       bidder.  '—'  So I will, Bob  ,' cried the woman.—'  Hooray, Bob Fossett  ,'
      bawled the crowd assembled; and then there was such laughing, and joking, and sky-larking, it
      seemed for all the world just like a fair. Well, Will Wyatt steps forward, and exclaims:
       '  I bid one shilling for that woman.  '—'  One shilling bid,  ' said Bob
       Fossett.—'  One shilling and a pot of beer  ,' cries some wag in the crowd.—'  One
       shilling and a pot of beer is bid  ,' shouts Fossett; '  who bids any
       more?  '—'  One shilling and a gallon of beer!  ' bawls Will Wyatt.—'  One shilling
       and a gallon of beer for this woman!  ' cries Bob Fossett: '  who'll advance on that?
       Going for one shilling and a gallon of beer: going—going,—will no one bid?—gone! Will Wyatt,
       my lad, that woman's yours!  ' So Will Wyatt steps forward, kisses the woman, takes off
      the halter, and tacks her under his arm as cozy as if they'd just been spliced at church. Then
      they all three went off to the nearest public-house, the crowds hooraying, and shouting, and
      squeaking, and roaring, as they made way for the party to pass along. I determined to see the
      remainder of the fun, and so I followed them to the public-house.  
  "The moment we entered the parlour, I saw a person sitting in one corner, whose face seemed
      more or less familiar to me. He was a fine, tall, powerfully-built man; and his countenance
      was very handsome, but so dark that he appeared to be an East-Indian. But it was the peculiar
      expression of the mouth, and the piercing glance of the eyes, that struck me. I looked—and
      looked again; and thought that a slight smile curled the stranger's lips as I surveyed him,
      although he did not seem to take any notice of me, or even to know that I was staring at him.
      'Well,' I thought to myself, 'if you are not my sallow-faced friend of last-sight, I'm
      terribly mistaken—that's all;' for I knew too much of disguises myself to be bothered by the
      difference of complexions. So I went and sat down close by him; and, having ordered something
      to drink, at length boldly whispered to him, '  I have seen you before.  '—'  Very
       likely,  ' answered the man, coolly; '  but take care of yourself, or you may still get
       into a scrape on account of cousin George's breeches.  ' With these words he rose, drained
      his glass, and walked coolly out of the room.  
  "You may imagine how astonished I was at the ominous words which he had whispered in my ear;
      but, collecting my ideas, I began to feel alarmed for my safety; and, having no longer any
      interest in the party whom I had followed into the public-house, I abruptly departed—without
      partaking of, or paying for, the refreshment which I had ordered. Hurrying away from the
      place, I got out of the town as quick as possible; and, avoiding the main-road, struck into
      the fields.  
  "I wandered about for two or three days, until all my money was gone; and I was one
      afternoon roaming along a by-lane, wondering what was to become of me, and thinking that it
      would be much better to break into some house, as a last and desperate resource, when I
      suddenly encountered a man and woman at the turning of the road. They were dressed as poor
      country people; but the darkness of their complexions immediately struck my attention; and, at
      a second glance, I recognised in the man the very person who had whispered those mysterious
      words in my ears, concerning cousin George's trousers, and whom I could almost certainly
      identify with the sallow-faced stranger. 'What, not got rid of cousin George's trousers yet!'
      he exclaimed, laughing heartily; and the woman, who seemed to understand the joke, joined in
      her companion's mirth.—'Who are you?' I said, 'and how do you happen to know about that little
      adventure of mine?'—'You see that I   do   it. As to how I know any thing about you, ask no questions, because you will
      receive no satisfactory answers. But if you wish to earn a shilling or two, say so; and you
      can do it within an hour.'—I professed my willingness to serve this strange individual.—'Come
      with us,' he said; and, striking into a narrow path, he led the way for about half-a-mile
      across the fields, until we came in sight of a large farm-house. 'You see that farm,' he said:
      'now listen attentively. You must go there, and under any pretence you can think of, obtain
      admission into the kitchen, or get into conversation with one of the servants, so as to glean
      all the information you can about the family. There's three daughters: find out whether they
      are engaged to be married, or who the young men are that principally visit at the house, and
      all particulars of that kind. We will wait for you in yonder copse.'  
  "The stranger and his companion hastened away towards the place where I was to meet them
      again, and I proceeded towards the farm. It was by no means difficult to gain admittance into
      the kitchen of that hospitable establishment: a simple request for a cup of milk led to an
      invitation from a buxom cook and a smart servant-maid to walk in and rest myself a little.
      Then bread and cheese, and a foaming tankard of home-brewed were set before me; and, while I
      ate and drank, I gradually drew the two women into the conversation which suited my purpose.
      They proclaimed the praises of 'master and missis;' and told me how the old people were very
      well off; and how Miss Jemima, the eldest daughter, was engaged to a young farmer in the
      neighbourhood; how Miss Mary, the second daughter, had been courted by an officer in the army
      who had been quartered in the neighbouring town, but who had since left, and had never written
      to her afterwards; and how Miss Frances, the youngest, had been very melancholy ever since she
      had visited an aunt at Stafford, where it was well known an attorney's clerk had paid her very
      great attention. These, and various other particulars relative to the family, were related to
      me in the course of conversation; and, having remained at the farm for a couple of hours, I
      was about to take my leave, as well informed relative to the inmates as if I had lived with
      them all my life. But just as I was rising to depart, I espied a purse lying in a work-box
      upon a shelf; and I began to reflect how I could make it my own. Accident served my purpose:
      the cook insisted upon drawing me some more ale, and went into the cellar for that purpose;
      and the maid-servant stepped to the door of the kitchen to receive a can of milk which a boy
      brought there at the moment. To dart toward the shelf and secure the purse was the work of an
      instant; and when the maid turned towards me again, I was sitting as composedly as if I had
      never left my chair. The cook made her appearance with the ale, of which I drank; and I then
      took my leave, with many thanks for the kind entertainment I had received.  
  "I proceeded to the copse, where I found my strange employer and his female companion
      waiting for me. I told them all that I had gleaned relative to the farmer and his family; and
      they were highly delighted with the information so procured. The man gave me five shillings,
      and told me that he did not require my services any farther. I was not sorry to get away from
      the neighbourhood; and, taking leave of the persons who had employed me in so singular a
      service, pursued my way. When at a convenient distance from the spot where I had left them, I
      examined the purse, and, to my joy, found that it contained four sovereigns and about seven
      shillings in silver.  
  "Considerably cheered at this change in my pecuniary position, I pursued my way until long
      after dusk, when I entered a village where I determined to put up for the night. Having supped
      at a public-house, I inquired about a bed, and found that I could be accommodated with one in
      a double-bedded room, the other being already retained by a traveller who had arrived before
      me, but who had stepped out, I was informed, to transact some business with certain
      inhabitants of his acquaintance. Being tired, I went up to the room where I was to sleep,
      before the return of the person who was to occupy the other bed; but before I sought my own
      nest I looked about for a secure spot where I could conceal my purse, as I fancied that my
      companion might probably be no more honest than myself. I accordingly hid my treasure between
      the mattress and the sacking; and, putting my clothes under my pillow, lay down to rest. I
      soon fell into a deep sleep, from which I did not awake until aroused by the noise of some one
      moving about the room. I started up, and rubbing my eyes, asked what o'clock it was. The
      person who occupied the other bed was shaving himself at a looking-glass, with his back turned
      towards me; but the moment my voice fell upon his ears, he started round; and—to my horror—I
      recognised but too well, beneath a thick coat of lather, the never-to-be-forgotten countenance
      of cousin George.  
  "Here was a precious scrape! The red-faced man was deaf to my prayers for mercy, and alarmed
      the whole house. Landlord, boots, ostler, and pot-boy rushed up stairs, while cousin George
      vociferated, 'Fetch a constable! this is the rogue who stole my breeches and boots. Fetch a
      constable, I say! Here's the villain that imposed upon poor old blind Dobbin. Fetch a
      constable!' A constable was accordingly fetched; and I was duly given into his charge. While I
      was huddling on my clothes, cousin George exclaimed, with savage malignity, 'Ah! there's the
      boots, the scoundrel! There's the drab trousers, the scamp!' and I really believe he would
      have wrested them from me had it not been necessary for me to wear them in order to accompany
      the constable.  
  "I did not choose to drag forth my purse from its place of concealment, for fear it might
      involve me in a worse dilemma than that in which I found myself, and which, after all, was not
      particularly serious. I however left it beneath the mattress, with deep regret, and was led
      away by the constable, every soul in the public-house turning out to witness my departure. The
      landlord, moreover, gave me a parting blessing after a fashion—accusing me as a thief who had
      run up a score of three shillings and seven-pence halfpenny at his house, without the
      slightest means of paying it! To this very natural conclusion he came, inasmuch as the
      constable, upon searching me, had found nothing in my pockets.  
   his attention to the abstraction of the trousers and boots. I, of course, set up
      the usual defence,—'  Had never seen the gentleman before in my life—had bought the trousers
       and boots of a man that I met at a public house, and whose name I did not know; that I was an
       honest hard-working young fellow, out of employment; and had never been in trouble
       before.  ' The magistrate was, however, obstinate, and would not believe a word I uttered.
      He accordingly ordered me to be committed for trial at the sessions; and I was moved to an
      out-house, there to wait in the custody of the constable, until my   mittimus   was made
      out, and a cart was obtained to take me to the county gaol. Cousin George, satisfied with what
      he had done so far, threw a glance of triumph upon me as I was moved away from the
      magistrate's library.  
  "While I was pent up in the out-house, I went up to the window and looked out upon that open
      country which seemed the scene of a freedom now lost to me. As I was standing there, pondering
      on my condition, and wondering whether the numerous burglaries which I had committed in a
      neighbourhood not very far distant, would be brought against me, my attention was suddenly
      attracted to a number of people who were advancing rapidly towards the house. As they drew
      near, to my surprise I recognised the swarthy stranger and his female companion, both
      evidently in the custody of two constables, and followed by the cook, maid-servant, and other
      persons belonging to the farm-house. An idea of the real truth instantly flashed through my
      mind; and I felt sorry—very sorry for the two poor creatures who, I had no doubt, were
      suffering under a suspicion of the robbery which I had perpetrated. Moreover, I could not help
      thinking that the swarthy man and the sallow-faced man were one and the same person, and that
      the two half-crowns had been purposely thrown in my way by him, at the inn in the market-town,
      to relieve me from that embarrassment into which his keen eyes had penetrated. These
      reflections suddenly filled me with deep interest in the stranger and his female
      companion.  
  "The procession passed the window (from which I drew back), and entered the magistrate's
      house. Half-an-hour passed away; and then the clergyman's man-servant made his appearance with
      a jug of ale and some bread and meat for the constable who had me in charge. But nothing was
      given to me, either to eat or drink! 'There's a new case on in the library,' said the
      servant.—'Ah! what's that?' inquired the constable.—'Two gipsies,' was the answer, 'man and
      woman, have been prigging a purse down at farmer Clodhopper's. The purse belonged to a young
      servant gal, and was missed out of her work-box just after the gipsies had left the house last
      night. But the constables were put on the scent, and soon found the thieves.'—'And was the
      purse recovered?' asked the officer who had me in custody.—'Deuce a bit of it,' said the
      servant, 'those gipsies know a trick worth two of that. It seems that they went down to the
      farm late last night, and told all the young ladies and servant girls their fortunes; so they
      were taken into the kitchen and fed with the best, besides all the money they'd had given to
      them by the young ladies and the servants. Not content with all that, they stole the purse,
      the vagabonds!'—'No, they didn't, though!' I exclaimed, stepping forward; for somehow or
      another my blood boiled and my heart ached to think that those two poor creatures should be
      punished for a crime of which they were innocent. Besides, I made sure that all my past
      offences would be brought against me at the assizes; and I knew in that case that I should be
      booked for transportation; so one robbery more or less could not make much difference to me.
      Well, both the constable and the servant stared when I spoke in that manner. 'Yes,' I
      continued, 'it is perfectly true that those two gipsies are innocent of the theft; and if you
      will take me before his worship again, I will prove my words.' The constable accordingly
      conducted me back to the library.  
  "The moment I entered the room, the gipsy-man and his companion exhibited the greatest
      surprise and interest. I gave them a re-assuring glance; and then, turning towards the
      magistrate, I said, 'Your worship, these two poor creatures are innocent of the crime imputed
      to them.'—'How do you know?' demanded the justice roughly, for his lunch-time was now drawing
      near.—'Because I stole it myself,' was my answer. The greatest astonishment pervaded the
      assembly; joy animated the countenance of the two gipsies; while the cook and maid servant
      cried out, '  Dear me!  ' and '  Who would have thought it!  ' as loud as they
      could. The justice looked tremendous savage, and declared that he would order the room to be
      cleared of strangers if they interrupted the business in that indecent manner! I was then
      called upon to explain the assertion which I had made.—'These two persons,' I said, pointing
      towards the gipsies, 'are accused of stealing a purse from farmer Clodhopper's kitchen?'—'They
      are. Well?'—'Then they didn't steal it, because I stole it myself; and these servants can
      prove that I was there yesterday afternoon.'—'So he was!' exclaimed the cook and maid in the
      same breath.—'And now,' I continued, 'if you will send and search under the mattress of the
      bed which I slept in last night at the public-house where I was arrested, you will find the
      purse.' But this trouble was avoided; for scarcely had I uttered these words, when in came the
      landlord of that public-house, holding the purse in his hands. His wife, it appeared, had
      found it when making the beds; and suspicion instantly pointed to me as the person who had
      placed it in the spot where it was discovered. This circumstance brought the case safe home to
      me; and the gipsies were instantly discharged, with a warning to take care of themselves in
      future!  
  "Nothing could exceed the looks of deep gratitude which those two innocent persons cast upon
      me as they left the room:—but that of the man was significant of something more than a mere
      sense of obligation for the act of duty which I had done. I don't know how it was, too—but,
      rogue as I was, I felt an inward satisfaction at the part which I had just performed.  
  '  
  "And sure enough we did wait until eight o'clock in the evening before we started; and then
      no thanks to the man nor the veterinary surgeon, for the former was still too tipsy to move,
      and the latter could do nothing for the horse. However, another man came forward, at a late
      hour, and offered his services. He not only cured the horse in a few minutes, but also
      undertook to drive the cart. The constable accordingly put a pair of handcuffs on me and took
      me out into the yard where the vehicle was waiting. A man with a sallow face and bushy red
      hair, was already seated in front, holding the whip and reins; and as I mounted he gave me a
      look which I immediately understood. That man was no other than my friend, the swarthy gipsy,
      so well disguised that his own mother would have scarcely known him.  
  "Away we went at a rattling pace: it was soon dark, and the constable told the driver not to
      go at such a rate. But he did not obey the command: on the contrary, he whipped the horse the
      more; and the cart bounded along the road as if it was for wager. The constable swore and
      prayed by turns: the driver laughed; and presently the cart upset into a dry ditch. 'Run for
      your liberty!' cried the driver to me, as he pulled me from the ditch; and I followed him
      across the fields with a speed that was increased by hearing the constable shouting '  Stop,
       thief!  ' behind me. But in a very few minutes those cries became fainter and fainter,
      until they at length ceased altogether. Still my deliverer pursued his way, and at such a
      rate, too, that I was scarcely able to keep up with him.  
  "At length we stopped in a thicket, and sat down to rest. My deliverer took a file from his
      pocket and worked away at my manacles with such a skill and energy, that in a few minutes I
      was relieved from them. He then produced some food, and I made a hearty meal. When the meal
      was over, my companion condescended to give me an explanation of certain matters which had
      hitherto remained wrapped up in some degree of mystery.  
  "'You must be informed,' he said, 'that my name is Morcar, and that I am the son of Zingary,
      king of the gipsies. The female whom you saw with me yesterday and this morning, is my wife. A
      considerable portion of the money earned by our race consists of fees paid by the simple and
      credulous, for having their fortunes told. In order to obtain the necessary information
      relative to the inhabitants of those places or dwellings which we visit, we are compelled to
      assume many disguises, or to make use of the agency of others, not connected with us, to
      gather that information for us. Some days ago, at an early hour in the morning, I was
      loitering about in the neighbourhood of the   Three Compasses  , and from behind a hedge
      saw you make off with the boots and trousers which a boy had been brushing in the yard. Chance
      led me that same afternoon to the village where you played your famous trick upon old Dobbin;
      and, as the story spread like wild-fire through the place immediately after your detection by
      cousin George, I could not avoid hearing all the particulars. I got a lift in a cart from that
      village to the market-town where I met you the same night at the inn. I could not help
      admiring your boldness and ingenuity; and, while I sat quietly smoking my pipe in the
      tap-room, listening to the discourse of the inmates, and picking up a variety of information,
      to be turned to future account, I noticed your embarrassment at the appearance of the waiter
      to collect the money owing by each individual. I had made a good day's work in a certain way,
      and was disposed to be liberal: accordingly, at a moment when you were turned in another
      direction, I placed the two half-crowns close by where you sate on the bench. Next day I threw
      off what I call my '  sallow disguise  ', and repaired to another public-house, near the
      market, to glean additional information, all of which our women have since turned to ample
      profit. Then I was enabled to give you a warning which was really important to you, as old
      Dobbin's cousin George had actually arrived that morning in the town to attend the market. A
      few days afterwards I was roving with my wife along the by-lanes in the neighbourhood of
      Clodhopper's farm, endeavouring by some means to glean what we could concerning the young
      women at that place—for our finest harvests are always reaped at farm-houses. Again I met you;
      and I made you the instrument of my design. But,' added Morcar, with a smile, 'you went
      farther than you were instructed: you did a thing which   we   never do—I mean, steal
      money. We take for our use a sucking-pig, a fowl, or a goose; and we do not consider that
      stealing. We also snare rabbits and game; and we look upon it as no crime. However, you saw
      the scrape into which that business of the purse got me and my wife this morning. You saved
      us, and I vowed to save you also. The moment I was discharged I went to the stable where the
      horse that was to convey you to gaol was kept, and bribed the ostler to drive a nail into his
      foot so as to touch the flesh. Then I found the man who was to drive you, and plied him so
      well with liquor that he was unable to perform his duty. My object was to delay your journey
      until the evening, because I knew that I could ensure your escape in the dark. You have seen
      how well my plans have succeeded, because you are now free.'  
  "You may suppose that I thanked my kind deliverer most sincerely for all he had done to
      serve me. He, however, cut me short in my expressions of gratitude, by saying, 'What are you
      going to do? If you will join us, you will be assured of your daily food, and will be more or
      less protected from danger. My father has a van, in which you can at any time hide when
      concealment is necessary; and we will do all we can to serve you, for I still consider myself
      to be indebted to you on account of your generous conduct of this morning. I could have borne
      punishment myself; but the idea of my wife being plunged into such misery—no,
      never—never!'  
  "I accepted the welcome offers of Morcar, and that very night was conducted to the
      encampment where his father and mother had taken up their quarters. Eva presented her son to
      me, saying, 'You have preserved for this little one a father and mother: henceforth the
      Zingarees will know thee as a friend!' From that moment I have lived with the gipsies until
      the present time; and, though some years have passed away since I first joined them, I have
      not yet become weary of our wandering mode of existence."  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXIV. THE PALACE IN THE HOLY LAND.  
  THE wanderer amidst the crowded thoroughfares of the multitudinous metropolis cannot be
      unacquainted with that assemblage of densely populated streets and lanes which is situate
      between High Street (St. Giles's) and Great Russell Street (Bloomsbury).  
  The district alluded to is called the Holy Land.  
   thing that is squalid, hideous, debauched, and immoral, makes its
      dwelling;—there woman is as far removed from the angel as Satan is from the Godhead, and man
      is as closely allied to the brute as the idiot is to the baboon;—there days are spent in
      idleness, and nights in dissipation;—there no refinement of habit or of speech is known, but
      male and female alike wallow in obscene debauchery and filthy ideas;—there garments are
      patched with pieces of various dyes, and language is disfigured with words of a revolting
      slang;—there the natural ruffianism and brutal instincts of the human heart are unrepressed by
      social ties or conventional decencies;—there infamy is no disgrace, crime no reproach, vice no
      stain.  
  Such is the Holy Land.  
  In a dark and gloomy alley, connecting two of the longer streets in this district, stood a
      large house four storeys high, and with windows of such narrow dimensions that they seemed
      intended to admit the light of day only by small instalments.  
  Four steep stone steps, each only about six inches broad, led to the front door, which
      always stood open during the day-time.  
  This front-door gave admittance into a small square compartment, which was denominated "the
      lobby," and from which a second door opened into the house.  
  The inner door just alluded to was kept constantly shut, save when admittance was demanded
      by any one who had the right of entry into the habitation. But even that admittance was never
      granted without precaution. In the ceiling of the little hall or lobby described, there was a
      small trap-door, let into the floor of the room above; and by these means the sentinel on duty
      up-stairs was enabled to reconnoitre every one who knocked at the inner door.  
  The interior of the house resembled a small barrack. The apartments on the ground floor were
      used as day-rooms or refectories, and were fitted up with long tables and forms. The floors
      were strewed with sand; and the appearance of the place was more cleanly and comfortable than
      might have been expected in such a neighbourhood. The lower panes of the windows were smeared
      with a whitewash, which prevented passers-by from peering from the street into the
      apartments.  
  The upper storeys were all used as dormitories, some being allotted to the male and others
      to the female inmates of the house. These rooms were furnished with mattresses, blankets, and
      coverlids; but there were no bedsteads. The aspect of the dormitories was as cleanly as that
      of the day-rooms.  
  To the ceiling over the landing-place of the second floor was hung a large bell, to the
      wheel of which were attached numerous ropes, which branched off, through holes in the walls
      and floors, in all directions, so that an alarm could be rung from every room in that spacious
      tenement.  
  Behind the house there was a large yard, surrounded by the dead walls which formed the sides
      of other buildings; thus, in no way, was the dwelling which we have described, overlooked by
      the neighbours. At the bottom of the yard was a door opening into a court which communicated
      with another street; and thus a convenient mode of egress was secured to any one who might
      find it prudent to beat a precipitate retreat from the house.  
  We have now endeavoured to furnish the reader with an idea of King Zingary's Palace in the
      Holy Land.  
  In order to complete the description, it only remains for us to state that the various
      precautions to which we have alluded, in connexion with the Palace, were adopted for the
      protection and safety of those inmates who, either in the course of their avocations or
      otherwise, might happen to render themselves obnoxious to the myrmidons of the law. Not that
      the pursuits of the subjects of King Zingary necessarily comprised practices which rendered
      their headquarters liable to constant visits from the police: but persons accustomed to a
      vagabond kind of existence, could not be otherwise than often tempted into lawless courses;
      and his Majesty did not dare disown or discard a dependant who thus became involved in danger.
      Moreover, the protection of the gipsies was frequently accorded to persons who rendered them a
      service, or who could pay for such succour, as in the respective cases of Skilligalee and the
      Rattlesnake: or it was not unusually granted upon motives of humanity, as in reference to the
      man called the Traveller. This intercourse with characters of all descriptions was another
      reason for the adoption of precautionary measures at the Palace; but seldom—very seldom was it
      that the necessity of those measures was justified by events, the police being well aware that
      no good ever resulted from a visit to the royal mansion in the Holy Land.  
  It was ten o'clock at night; and the king of the gipsies was presiding at the
      banqueting-table in his palace.  
  Upwards of sixty gipsies, male and female, were assembled round the board. These consisted
      of the chiefs of the different districts into which the gipsy kingdom was divided, with their
      wives and daughters.  
  Skilligalee, the Rattlesnake, and the Traveller were also seated at the table, and were
      honoured as the king's guests.  
  The meal was over; and the board was covered with bottles containing various descriptions of
      liquor, drinking mugs, pipes, and tobacco.  
  With all the solemn gravity of a chairman at a public dinner, Zingary rapped his knuckles
      upon the table, and commanded those present to fill their glasses.  
  The order was obeyed by both men and women; and the king then spoke as follows:—  
  "Most loyal and dutiful friends, this is the hundred and thirty-first anniversary of the
      institution of that custom in virtue of which the provincial rulers of the united races of
      Egyptians and Bohemians in England assemble together once every year at the Palace. A hundred
      and thirty-one years ago, this house was purchased by my grandfather King Sisman, and
      bequeathed to his descendants to serve as the head-quarters and central point of our
      administration. There is scarcely an individual of the united races who has not experienced
      the hospitality of this Palace. Every worthy Zingaree who visits the metropolis enjoys his bed
      and his board without fee and without price for seven days in our mansion, the superintendence
      of which is so ably conducted, while we are absent, by our brother on my right." Here the king
      glanced towards a venerable-looking gipsy who sate next to him. "In his hands our treasures
      are safe; and to-morrow he will place before you an account of the remittances he has received
      from the provincial districts, and the expenditures he has made in the maintenance of this
      establishment. You will find, I have reason to believe, a considerable balance in our favour.
      Let us then celebrate with a bumper the hundred and thirty-first anniversary of the opening of
      our royal palace!"  
  hurrahs—without clamour,—but not the less sincerely on that account.  
  "My pretty Eva," said the king, after a pause, "will now oblige us with a song?"  
  Zingary's daughter-in-law did not require to be pressed to exhibit her vocal powers; but in
      a sweet voice she sang the following air:—  
    THE GIPSY'S HOME.    
  
  Oh! who is so blythe, and happy, and free  
  As the ever-wandering Zingaree?  
  'Tis his at his own wild will to roam;  
  And in each fair scene does he find a home,—  
  Does he find a home!  
  The sunny slope, or the shady grove,  
  Where nightingales sing and lovers rove;  
  The fields where the golden harvests wave,  
  And the verdant bank which the streamlets lave,  
  Are by turns his home.  
  The busy town with its selfish crowd,  
  The city where dwell the great and proud,  
  The haunts of the mighty multitude,  
  Where the strong are raised and the weak subdued,  
  Are to him no home.  
  Oh! ever happy—and ever free,  
  Who is so blest as the Zingaree?—  
  Where nature puts on her gayest vest,  
  Where flowers are sweetest and fruits are best,  
  Oh! there is his home.  
  
  "Thank you, sweet Eva," said the king, when the gipsy woman had concluded her song, in the
      chorus of which the other females had joined in a low and subdued tone. "Ours is indeed a
      happy life," continued Zingary. "When roving over the broad country, we enjoy a freedom
      unknown to the rest of the world. No impost or taxes have we then to pay: we drink of the
      stream at pleasure, and never feel alarmed lest our water should be cut off. We can choose
      pleasant paths, and yet pay no paving-rate. The sun lights us by day, and the stars by night;
      and no one comes to remind us that we owe two quarters' gas. We pitch our tents where we will,
      but are not afraid of a ground-landlord. We do not look forward with fear and trembling to
      Lady-day or Michaelmas, for the broker cannot distress us. We move where we like, without
      dreading an accusation of   shooting the moon  . In fine, we are as free and independent
      as the inhabitants of the desert. A health, then, to the united races of Zingarees!"  
  This toast was drunk in silence, like the former; and the king then called upon the pretty
      dark-eyed daughter of one of the chiefs to favour the company with a song.  
  The request was complied with in the following manner:—  
    "COME HITHER, FAIR MAIDEN."    
  
  Come hither, fair maiden! and listen to me,  
  I've a store of good tidings to tell unto thee—  
  Bright hopes to call smiles to those sweet lips of thine,  
  And visions of bliss little short of divine.  
  Come hither, fair maiden! the poor Zingaree  
  Hath promise of love and of fortune for thee:  
  Away from the future the dark cloud shall fly,  
  And years yet unborn be revealed to thine eye.  
  Come hither, fair maiden! no more shall thou be  
  Alarmed lest the fates act unkindly to thee;—  
  The planet that governed the hour of thy birth  
  Shall guide thee to all the fair spots of the earth!  
  Come hither, fair maiden! futurity's sea  
  Shall roll on no longer unfathomed by thee;  
  With me canst thou plunge in its dark depths, and know  
  How rich are the pearls that Hope treasures below.  
  
  In this manner did the gipsies pass the evening, until the clock struck eleven, when they
      separated to their dormitories.  
  The Rattlesnake was astonished to observe the order and regularity which prevailed with the
      strange association amongst which accident had thrown her. The festival had passed without
      noise and without intemperance; the presence of the king and queen seemed alone sufficient to
      maintain tranquillity and prevent enjoyment from passing the barriers of propriety.  
  We need not, however, linger upon this portion of our tale. Suffice it to say that a
      fortnight glided away, during which the king of the gipsies was detained in the metropolis by
      the business which he had to transact with his chiefs. The Rattlesnake did not venture out of
      the house; and Skilligalee was her constant companion.  
  The Traveller meantime disguised himself in a manner which would have defied the penetrating
      eyes of even a parent, had he met his own mother; and from morning until evening did he prowl
      about London, in search of the   one individual   against whom he nourished the most
      terrible hatred. But, every evening, when he returned home to the Gipsy Palace, his
      countenance was more gloomy and his brow more lowering; and, if questioned relative to the
      causes of his rage or grief, he replied in a savage tone, "Another day is gone—and   he  
      still lives: but I will never rest until I trace him out."  
  And then he would grind his teeth like a hyena.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXV. THE PROPOSAL.—UNEXPECTED MEETINGS.  
  RETURN we once more to Markham Place.  
  Mr. Monroe had so far recovered from the malady into which the dread discovery of his
      daughter's dishonour had plunged him, as to be enabled to rise from his bed and sit by the
      fire in his chamber.  
  Ellen was constant in her attentions to the old man; and, with her child in her arms, did
      she keep him company.  
  By a strange idiosyncrasy of our nature, Mr. Monroe, instead of abhorring the sight of the
      infant which proclaimed his well-beloved daughter's shame, entertained the most ardent
      affection for the innocent cause of that disgrace; and he rapidly recovered health and
      spirits, as he sate contemplating that young unwedded mother nursing her sin-begotten
      babe.  
  Richard Markham pursued his studies, though rather for amusement than with any desire of
      gain, inasmuch as the money repaid him by Count Alteroni had once more restored him to a
      condition of comfort, although not of affluence.  
  His mind was far more easy and tranquil than it had wont to be; for he knew that he was
      beloved by Isabella; and, although she was a high-born princess of Europe, he felt convinced
      that no circumstances could alienate her affections from him.  
  One evening, when the year 1840 was about three weeks old, Whittingham introduced Mr.
      Gregory into our hero's library.  
  The countenance of that gentleman wore a melancholy expression;—his pace was sedate and
      solemn;—his voice was low and mournful. Markham was shocked when he beheld his altered
      appearance.  
   surprised to see me here, especially after the manner in which we parted. I am
      come to demand a favour, and not to reproach you:—indeed, I have no right to use the word
         reproach   towards you at all. You conducted yourself like an honourable man in
      respect to me: you taught my sons no lessons save those by which they have profited. If you
      erred in early life, you have no doubt repented;—and shall man dare to withhold that pardon
      which the Lord vouchsafes to all who implore it? I beheld your triumph at the theatre—would to
      God that nothing had sullied it! I beheld your fall—and I commisserated you. But before that
      there were reasons—cogent reasons which forbade me to continue the cultivation of your
      friendship; and as a man of honour and of good taste, you have not sought mine since we
      parted."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Before you proceed farther," said Richard,—"for I see that you have some business of more
      or less importance to discuss with me,—allow me to inform you that I was not overpowered by
      guilt on that fatal night when I was so cruelly denounced at the theatre. The consciousness of
      crime did not strike me level with the dust. I fell beneath a reaction of feelings too
      powerful for human nature to struggle with. The proofs of my innocence——"  
  "Your innocence!" cried Mr. Gregory, now strangely agitated; "your innocence, say you?"  
  "Yes—my innocence," repeated Markham, his cheeks flushed with a noble pride; "for I can
      glory in that innocence, and assert it boldly and without fear of contradiction."  
  "In the name of God, explain your meaning!" exclaimed Mr. Gregory, so excited that he could
      scarcely draw his breath.  
  "I mean that I was the victim of the most infernal treachery ever planned," cried our hero;
      and he then related the whole particulars of his early misfortunes to Mr. Gregory.  
  "Oh! now, indeed, I can make my proposal to you with joy and honour!" cried this gentleman;
      "for you must know, Mr. Markham, that my daughter loves you, and has for some time loved you
      with the most pure, the most holy, and the most ardent affection! But you saw that she loved
      you—you were not blind to that passion which her ingenuous nature would not allow her to
      conceal: you knew that her heart was fondly devoted to you."  
  "  
  "I believe you," said the father of that young lady; "for I noticed that you were often
      reserved when she was gay and friendly towards you. And it was to separate her from the object
      of her affection that I parted with you as the tutor of my sons; for it was not until the
      disclosure at the theatre that I learnt the sad accusation under which you had laboured in
      your early youth."  
  Mr. Gregory paused for a moment, and then continued thus:—  
  "I hoped that my daughter's happiness was not altogether compromised by her love for you;—I
      removed her to a change of scene; and there an accident threw her into the society of a
      charming family, with whom she passed about ten days. At the beginning of this week I fetched
      her home to my house in Kentish Town; but I found that she was more melancholy than ever. Her
      naturally joyous and lively disposition has changed to mourning and sorrow. I have not,
      however, told her that I am acquainted with her secret: I know not whether she even suspects
      that I have penetrated it. I have studiously avoided all mention of your name; and she never
      alludes to you by word. But she thinks of you always! She nourished a flame which consumes
      her! Now I am come, Mr. Markham, to propose to you the hand of my daughter,—to propose it to
      you with frankness and candour! I know that the step which I am taking is an unusual
      one—perhaps an improper one;—but the safety—the happiness—the life of my daughter compels me
      thus to depart from the usages of society. If your heart be not otherwise engaged—and I never
      heard you hint that such was the case,—and if you think that the charms and accomplishments of
      Mary-Anne are worthy of your notice,—in addition to the handsome fortune which my means enable
      me to settle upon her,—in that case——"  
  "My dear sir," interrupted Richard, pressing Mr. Gregory's hands warmly in his own,—"you
      have honoured me with this proposal;—and, under other circumstances, I should have been no
      doubt gratified—but—it is impossible!"  
  "Impossible!" repeated Mr. Gregory, a cloud coming over his countenance.  
  "Yes—impossible! I appreciate your daughter's great merits—I admire her personal beauty—I
      respect her excellent qualities,—and I could have loved her dearly as a sister;—but my
       heart—  that   is not mine to give!"  
  "What? You love another!" ejaculated Mr. Gregory.  
  "For some time my affections have been devoted to a young lady, who has confessed a
      reciprocal attachment to me——"  
  "Enough—enough!" cried the unhappy father: "for my poor daughter there is now no hope! But
      you, Mr. Markham, will forget that this proposal was ever made;—you will bury the particulars
      of this visit of mine in oblivion?"  
  "With me the secret of your daughter's heart is sacred."  
  Mr. Gregory wrung the hand of our hero, and took his leave.  
  It is scarcely necessary to observe that Mary-Anne had not communicated to her father one
      word of the conversation which had taken place a few days previously between herself and
      Isabella, relative to Richard Markham, and which has duly been narrated in a recent chapter;
      neither was Richard aware that Mr. Gregory and his daughter had accidentally formed the
      acquaintance of Count Alteroni's family.  
  So affected was Richard by the interview which had just taken place, that he sought the
      fresh air in order to calm his mind, and divert his thoughts from the contemplation of the
      unhappy condition of a lovely young creature whose heart was so disinterestedly devoted to
      him.  
  He walked towards London: the night was fine, frosty, and moonlight; and he was induced to
      prolong his ramble. He recollected that he required a particular work which was published by a
      bookseller in Great Russell Street, Bloomsbury; and thither did he proceed.  
  He entered the shop, made the purchase which he needed, and then repaired to the bottom of
      Tottenham Court Road, where it joins Oxford Street, in order to obtain a conveyance to take
      him home.  
  But as he turned the corner of Great Russell Street, an individual coming in the opposite
      direction knocked somewhat violently against him.  
  "Why the devil don't you use your eyes?" exclaimed the fellow brutally.  
  Richard started back and uttered a cry of mingled astonishment and horror; for the tone of
      the voice which had just addressed him was familiar—oh! too familiar—to his ears.  
  "Wretch!" he ejaculated, almost instantly recovering his presence of mind, and precipitating
      himself upon the other; "we have met at last where you shall not escape me!"  
  "Damnation! Richard Markham!" growled the Resurrection Man—for it was he; then, with a
      sudden jerk, rather characterised by a particular knack than by any extraordinary degree of
      strength, he disengaged himself from the grasp of our hero, and, turning on his heels, darted
      off at full speed towards Saint Giles's.  
  All this was only the work of a single instant; but as soon as the Resurrection Man thus
      escaped, Richard gave the alarm, and in a moment a policeman and several persons who had
      witnessed the encounter (for it was but a little past nine o'clock in the evening) joined in
      the pursuit.  
  The Resurrection Man rushed along with desperate speed,—took the first turning to the left,
      and plunged into the dark and narrow streets lying between Great Russell Street and High
      Street.  
  London was as well known to the miscreant as if it were a mere village, whose topography may
      be learnt in an hour. This knowledge stood him in good stead on the present occasion: he dived
      down one street—merged into another—dodged down courts, and up alleys—and at length rushed
      into a sort of lobby, the front door of which stood open, but the inner door of which was
      shut.  
  At that inner door he knocked violently.  
  A trap was opened above, and a light streamed down upon him.  
  "What do you want?" cried a gruff voice, speaking through the trap-door in the ceiling.  
  "Open—open!" exclaimed the Resurrection Man; "let me in, and I will reward you well."  
  The trap was closed; the lobby was again pitch-dark, as it was before the light streamed
      down into it; and in a few moments the house-door was opened.  
  The Resurrection Man rushed in: the door was closed once more; and the villain exclaimed, "I
      have done them, by God!"  
  "Who are you?" asked the man who had opened the door, and who had the appearance of a
      gipsy.  
    
  "That's enough," said the gipsy; "you are safe here. Follow me."  
  The gipsy led the Resurrection Man into one of the lower rooms, where King Zingary, Morcar,
      and five or six gipsy-chiefs were carousing. The Rattlesnake was up stairs with the other
      women; the Traveller was not yet returned from his day's hunt after his enemy; and the greater
      number of the gipsies had already taken their departure from London.  
  The Resurrection Man was well aware that the gipsies had an establishment in that district
      of London; but he had never been previously acquainted with its precise whereabouts. It,
      however, now instantly struck him that accident had led him into that very establishment.  
  Advancing towards Zingary, he said, "If I am not mistaken, this is the crib where the famous
      race of Bohemians and Egyptians are accustomed to meet in London. I claim of them hospitality
      for a few hours."  
  "As long as suits your interests, friend," answered the King. "Sit down, and do as we
      do."  
  The Resurrection Man needed no second invitation. He took the seat offered him near the
      royal chair, and, in pursuance of another invitation, speedily made himself comfortable with a
      snicker of rum-flim and a broseley.  
  "Booze and be merry," said the King: "we shall have nothing to interrupt our merriment
      to-night; the women have all gone to roost, that they may get up early, for we leave the Holy
      Land to-morrow morning. At five o'clock we depart. But you, my friend," he continued,
      addressing himself to the Resurrection Man, "are welcome to remain here a day or two, if such
      a plan suits your safety, as I suppose it does. We leave an intendant of our royal palace
      behind us."  
  At this moment Skilligalee entered the room, and took his seat at the board.  
  "All is quiet up stairs, your majesty," said this individual; "and so I suppose the women
      are gone to the downy. They all seem glad at the idea of leaving London to-morrow
      morning."  
  "And none more so, I think, than your Margaret," observed the King, with a laugh. "She seems
      dreadfully afraid of that man who, she says, is in pursuit of her."  
  The Resurrection Man was immediately struck by these remarks: he became all attention, but
      said nothing.  
  "If you knew all," cried Skilligalee, "you would not blame her. It appears that the fellow
      is a perfect demon. His regular trade is in dead bodies; and so he can't be very nice."  
  "It is the Rattlesnake—it   must   be!" said the Resurrection Man to himself.  
  But not a muscle of his countenance moved; and he sat smoking his pipe as coolly as if he
      had heard nothing capable of exciting him. Nevertheless, within him there were emotions of the
      most fiendish triumph—of the most hellish delight; for his victim was near—and the hour of
      vengeance approached.  
  Then it struck him that his purpose might be defeated, were the Rattlesnake, who had
      evidently made friends of the gipsies, to meet him in their presence. But he recollected that
      the women were stated to have already retired to rest; and he felt more easy on this head.
      Again, he asked himself how he was to discover the room in which she slept;—and to this
      question all his ingenuity could answer nothing more than that he must trust to
      circumstances.  
  And accident did serve his infernal purposes even in this respect.  
  The gipsies, not dreaming that their conversation could have any ulterior interest to him,
      continued it upon the same topic.  
  "Poor Meg is terribly put out because she has lost all her companions up stairs," continued
      Skilligalee. "She couldn't bear the idea of sleeping all alone in the great room just over
      this."  
  "Then she should get married, and have a husband to take care of her," said the Resurrection
      Man, with a coarse laugh;—but his remark was merely for the purpose of clearing up a
      doubt.  
  "And so she has some one to take care of her," cried Skilligalee; "and that's me. But
      there's one rule in this place—men sleep in their rooms, and women in theirs."  
  "We can't split the palace into a hundred different bed-chambers," observed Zingary.  
  "Certainly not," said the Resurrection Man. "But surely the lady you are talking of can't be
      afraid in such a fortress as this?"  
  "But she is, though," answered Skilligalee. "The women that occupied the same room with her
      went away this morning, because the court is going out of town again," he added, with a jovial
      laugh. "Meg wanted to move into her majesty's room; but Aischa and Eva told her that she must
      learn to get rid of her stupid fears."  
  "And very properly," said the Resurrection Man.  
  "But never mind these matters of talk," cried Skilligalee; "they're only domestic, after
      all. Come, I'll sing you a song, as it's the last night we shall be here."  
  Skilligalee accordingly chanted a merry lay; and the conversation afterwards turned upon a
      variety of topics, none of which possessed sufficient interest to be recorded in our
      pages.  
  At length a clock in the passage struck eleven; and King Zingary instantly rose from his
      seat.  
  This was a signal for the revellers to retire.  
  "Skilligalee," said the King, "you will tell the trap-faker  target="#ENG18460_N100" [100]   that the Traveller is the only one out; and you will conduct our new guest to
      the strangers' ward. Lieges and friends, good-night."  
  The king withdrew; the other gipsy-chiefs dispersed to their dormitories; and Skilligalee
      proceeded to conduct the Resurrection Man to the room where he was to sleep.  
  If any doubt had remained in the mind of Anthony Tidkins relative to the identity of the
      Margaret then in that house with the Margaret whom he sought, it would have been dispelled by
      the mention of the name of Skilligalee—a name which had occurred in the Rattlesnake's history
      of her life. The Resurrection Man immediately comprehended that she had fallen in with her old
      companion.  
  Skilligalee lighted a candle, and led the way up stairs. On the first floor, he looked into
      the porter's lodge, which was immediately over, and corresponded in size with, the lobby
      below.  
  "Trap-faker, old fellow," he said, "the Traveller is out late to-night; but I suppose he
      means to come back. He's the only one abroad."  
  "All right," returned the porter: "I'll attend to him."  
   Flathers slept. Skilligalee left the Resurrection Man a candle, wished him good
      night, and retired to the room in which he slept.  
  The moment the Resurrection Man was alone, his hideous countenance threw aside its
      constraint composure, and assumed an expression so truly fiend-like, that, had a spectator
      been by, it must have inspired sentiments of terror. Like every greedy and avaricious man, he
      entertained the most ferocious hatred against the person who had robbed him of his
      treasure;—and now that the means of revenge were within his reach, together with a hope of
      recovering his gold, (for he resolved to converse with the Rattlesnake ere he killed her), he
      experienced that kind of demoniac joy which invariably characterises the triumph of the
      ruffian.  
  Beneath the rough upper coat which the Resurrection Man wore, he had a pair of loaded
      pistols; and in his pocket he carried a clasp-knife, with a blade as long, pointed, and sharp
      as a dagger.  
  Thus armed to the very teeth, as it were,—and moreover endowed with that reckless kind of
      daring which we have seen him exercise on so many different occasions,—the Resurrection Man
      was as desperate and formidable a villain as any Italian bravo that ever wielded the elastic
      steel of Milan, or any Spanish bandit whose hand was familiar with the bright blade of
      Albaceta.  
  An hour passed away; and profound silence reigned throughout the Palace in the Holy
      Land.  
  The Resurrection Man, with a candle in his left hand, and his right ready to grasp a weapon
      of defence, stole cautiously from his room.  
  He descended the stairs, and proceeded to the apartment in which the Rattlesnake slept.  
  The door yielded to his hand—and he entered the chamber.  
  It was a large room, with twelve mattresses spread upon the floor; but only one of the beds
      was occupied—and that was by Margaret Flathers.  
  The intended victim slept.  
  Anthony Tidkins approached the bed, placed the candle upon the floor, knelt down, and bent
      over the bolster.  
  "Margaret!" he said, in a low tone, giving her a gentle shake by the shoulder at the same
      time.  
  She opened her eyes; and at the same moment the Resurrection Man clapped his hand tightly
      upon her mouth. But this precaution was unnecessary; for, without it, profound terror would
      have sealed the lips of the affrighted woman.  
  "If you cause an alarm," muttered the Resurrection Man, in a low but hoarse and dogged tone,
      "I'll cut your throat that minute. I want to speak to you; and if you tell me the truth I will
      do you no harm."  
  The Rattlesnake clasped her hands together, and cast a glance of the most humble and earnest
      supplication up into the countenance of the demon whose sudden appearance—  there  —and
      at the still hour of night—leaning over her in so menacing a manner, and with dark resolve
      expressed in his foreboding face,—had struck such terror to her inmost soul.  
  "Now, mind," added the Resurrection Man,—"one word to disturb the house—and you die!"  
  He then withdrew his hand from her mouth; but she scarcely breathed more freely. Her alarm
      would not have been of a more appalling character, had she awoke to find herself encircled in
      the horrible coils of a boa-constrictor.  
  "You see, Margaret," continued Tidkins, "no one can escape me: sooner or later I fall in
      with those who thwart or injure me. But we have not much time for idle chattering. In one
      word; what have you done with the money you stole from me?"  
  "The gipsies have got it all," answered the woman, scarcely able to articulate through
      intense terror; "but a part of it is mine whenever I choose to claim it."  
  "Who has got it? Where is it kept?" demanded the Resurrection Man, speaking in a low and
      sullen whisper.  
  "The king of the gipsies."  
  "What—the old fool with a white beard?"  
  "The same."  
  "And where does he keep it, I say?"  
  "I have been told that the bag containing the gipsies' treasure is always placed under his
      bolster."  
  "Are you sure of that?" asked the Resurrection Man.  
  "Certain," was the reply: and now Margaret Flathers began to breathe more freely; for she
      thought that the object of the terrible individual present was not to kill her, but to obtain
      back his gold.  
  "Has any of it been spent?"  
  "No—no," answered the Rattlesnake, eagerly; although she well knew that a third had been
      already divided between the royal family, the Traveller, and Skilligalee—those being the
      persons who had found her asleep beneath the tree, and possessed themselves of her treasure in
      the first instance.  
  "Do you know where the king, as you call him, sleeps?" proceeded the Resurrection Man.  
  "Yes—I am acquainted with every nook and corner of this place," replied Margaret, her
      presence of mind gradually returning to her aid.  
  "But he does not sleep alone," said the Resurrection Man: "I know all about   that  .
      How many men occupy the same room with him?"  
  "Only his son Morcar."  
  "Are they armed?"  
  "No," answered the Rattlesnake; "they have nothing—or fancy they have nothing—to fear: this
      house is so well guarded!"  
  "Now listen," said the Resurrection Man, after a pause: "I have no time to waste in words.
      Will you conduct me to the room where this king of yours sleeps, and help me to get back my
      gold? or will you have your throat cut this minute?" And as he uttered these terrific words,
      he coolly drew his clasp-knife from his pocket.  
  "Oh! put away that horrid thing, and I will do all you tell me!" said the Rattlesnake,
      clasping her hands again together, while a cold shudder passed over her entire frame.  
  "Well—I don't want to do you any harm," returned Tidkins, with difficulty suppressing a
      sardonic smile. "But I warn you, that if you attempt any treachery, I will shoot you upon the
      spot without an instant's hesitation, let the consequences be what they may."  
  And this time he showed her the butt-ends of his pistols in the side-pocket of his rough
      coat.  
  "You need not threaten me, Tony," said the woman, endeavouring to assume an insinuating
      tone; but the dark scowl with which the Resurrection Man surveyed her as she thus addressed
      him, instantly checked that partial overture towards reconciliation and confidence.  
  "None of that nonsense with me, Meg," whispered Tidkins; "it has deceived me before. But I
      warn you! So now jump up and lead the way to the king's room."  
   been already informed, was made up on the floor; and Margaret Flathers got
      up.  
  "Shall I dress myself?" she said.  
  "What for? You don't think that you're going away with me—do you? No, no; I shall leave you
      in the excellent company which you have chosen for yourself, and with your friend
      Skilligalee."  
  The Rattlesnake made no reply; but she marvelled how the Resurrection Man became acquainted
      with so many particulars concerning her companions.  
  "Take the light, and go first," said the Resurrection Man; and, pulling off his heavy shoes,
      he prepared to follow her.  
  Margaret Flathers took the candle in her hand, and led the way cautiously to the room in
      which Zingary and Morcar slept.  
  The door was a-jar—and she entered, followed by the Resurrection Man.  
  The king and Morcar were fast asleep in their beds, which were also spread on the floor.  
  The Resurrection Man drew a pistol from his pocket, and advanced to the head of the king's
      couch.  
  The Rattlesnake remained in the middle of the room, holding the candle.  
  Tidkins cautiously introduced his hand beneath the bolster; and, to his inexpressible joy,
      his fingers came in contact with a bag evidently containing no small quantity of coin.  
  By the sudden flash of delight which overspread his countenance, the Rattlesnake perceived
      that her words had not misled him; and she rejoiced in her turn—for she had dreaded the
      consequences of any disappointment experienced on his part.  
  A difficult task yet remained for the Resurrection Man to perform: he had to draw the bag,
      as gently as he could, from beneath the king's head. At one moment a horrible idea entered his
      imagination;—he thought of cutting the old man's throat, in order to abstract the treasure
      without molestation. But then, there was the other man who might happen to awake! Accordingly
      he abandoned this horrible scheme, and commenced his task of slowly removing the bag.  
  But just at the moment when this difficulty seemed entirely overcome, Morcar started up in
      the next bed, and uttered a loud cry.  
  The candle fell from the hands of the Rattlesnake, and was extinguished. Availing himself of
      the darkness into which the room was thus suddenly plunged, the Resurrection Man seized the
      bag, and darted towards the door.  
  But scarcely had he set foot in the adjacent passage, when the deep tones of a bell suddenly
      boomed throughout the house; and the notes of the tocsin were instantly responded to by the
      clamour of voices and the rushing of many persons from the various rooms to know the cause of
      the alarm.  
  The entire house was now in confusion: the alarm, which Morcar rang, awoke every one
      throughout the establishment.  
  Meantime, the Resurrection Man had precipitated himself down stairs, and had already begun
      to unbolt the front door, when lights appeared, and in another moment he was surrounded by the
      gipsy chiefs, and pinioned by them.  
  "Villain!" cried Morcar, tearing the bag of gold from his grasp: "is this the reward of our
      hospitality?"  
  "It's mine—and I can prove it," thundered the Resurrection Man. "But let me go—I don't want
      to hurt any of you—and you needn't hurt me."  
  "Ah! that voice!" ejaculated the Traveller, who had just reached the bottom of the stairs as
      Tidkins uttered those words: then, before a single arm could even be stretched out to restrain
      him, he rushed with the fury of a demon upon the Resurrection Man, and planted his long dagger
      in the miscreant's breast.  
  Tidkins fell: a cry of horror broke from the gipsies; and the Traveller was instantly
      secured.  
  "He is not dead—but he is dying," exclaimed Morcar, raising the Resurrection Man in his
      arms.  
  "Tell him, then," cried the Traveller, in a tone of mingled triumph and joy,—"tell him that
      the man who was transported four years ago by his infernal treachery has at length been
      avenged,—tell him that he dies by the hand of Crankey Jem!"  
  These words seemed to animate the Resurrection Man for a few moments: he made an effort to
      speak—but his tongue refused to articulate the curses which his imagination prompted; and,
      turning a glance of the most diabolical hatred upon the avenger, he sank back insensible in
      the arms of Morcar.  
  The gipsies conveyed him up stairs, and placed him on a bed, where Aischa, who, like many
      females of her race, possessed no inconsiderable amount of medical knowledge, immediately
      attended upon him.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXVI. THE SECRET TRIBUNAL.  
  HALF an hour after the occurrences just related, a strange and terribly romantic scene took
      place at the Gipsies' Palace in Saint Giles's.  
  The principal room on the ground-floor was lighted up with numerous candles. At the head of
      the long table sate King Zingary, clad in a black robe or gown, and wearing a black cap upon
      his head.  
  The gipsies, who had all dressed themselves in the interval which had occurred since the
      alarm, were seated at the board,—the men on one side, the women on the other.  
  Aischa alone was absent.  
  At the lower end of the table sat Margaret Flathers,—her countenance deadly pale, and her
      eyes wildly glancing upon those around her, as if to inquire the meaning of this solemn
      conclave.  
  Skilligalee was also present; but his looks were downcast and sombre.  
  Such an assembly, in the middle of the night, and succeeding so rapidly upon the dread
      incidents which had already occurred, was enough to strike terror to the soul of Margaret
      Flathers; for she knew that this meeting, at which so much awful ceremony seemed to preside,
      bore some reference to   herself  .  
  At length Zingary spoke.  
   hospitality with a treacherous betrayal of any matters, the communication of
      which might militate against our interests. Although we have no sympathy and no dealings with
      the thieves and rogues of this great metropolis, we never refuse them the security of this
      establishment, when accident or previous acquaintance with its existence leads them to seek
      the safety of its walls. This conduct on our part has been pursued upon grounds of generosity
      and policy;—generosity, because we believe that half the criminals in existence are rather the
      victims of bad laws than of their own perverse natures;—policy, because we wish to keep on
      good terms with all orders and classes who live in violation of the law. It, however, behoves
      us to adopt as much precaution as possible against treachery, and to punish treachery where we
      detect it, and when the perpetrator of it is in our power. With this view the secret tribunal
      was instituted at the same time that this establishment was first opened, more than a century
      ago. Margaret, you are now in the presence of that tribunal, and you are accused of treachery
      and ingratitude of the very blackest dye."  
  This address was delivered with a solemnity which made a deep impression upon all present.
      No slang phrases, no low synonymes disfigured the language of King Zingary. He spoke in a
      manner becoming the chief of a vastly ramified association which had made laws for the
      protection of its own interests.  
  Margaret surveyed the aged individual who thus addressed her, with wild astonishment and
      vague alarm. But so confused were her ideas that she could not make any reply.  
  "What are the facts of this case?" continued King Zingary, after a pause: "you, Margaret,
      are discovered by us one morning, sleeping in the open air, and nearly dead with the cold. You
      have a treasure with you, which we might have appropriated altogether to ourselves, but a
      third of which has been held at your disposal—yours at any time you might choose to demand it.
      You come amongst us; you are treated by us with even more than usual attention and kindness;
      and you are allowed to associate with our wives and daughters without the least restraint. A
      fortnight scarcely elapses, when you conduct a robber into my room, and point to him the place
      where he may find the treasure belonging to the association."  
  "Hear me—hear me!" ejaculated Margaret, now recovering the power of speech; "hear me—and I
      will explain all."  
  "Speak," said the king.  
  "I am not guilty of premeditated ingratitude," continued the Rattlesnake: "I awoke in the
      middle of the night, and found a fiend in human shape hanging over me. That man was the one
      whom I had been so anxious to avoid—of whom I was so afraid. I admit that I had robbed him of
      the gold which you found with me; but I was not bound to tell you   that   before now.
      Well—I awoke, and he was hanging over me! How he came into the house, you best know; how he
      knew that I was an inmate of it, I cannot explain; how he discovered my room is also a
      mystery. Nevertheless—he did find me out; and with dreadful threats of instant death he made
      me lead him to your apartment to get back his gold. That is the whole truth."  
  A smile of incredulity played upon the lips of Zingary.  
  "Why did you not give the alarm, when once you were in my chamber?" he demanded. "Even if I
      am old and feeble, was not Morcar there? and could you not in one moment have summoned the
      others to your aid, by touching the bell-rope within your reach?"  
  "And, had I done so, that instant would have been my last. The fearful man, whom I obeyed,
      would have shot me dead on the spot," answered the Rattlesnake.  
  "And do you not know how to die rather than betray your companions?" asked the king.  
  "I am but a woman—a weak woman," exclaimed Margaret; "and—oh! no—no—I could not die so
      horrible a death!"  
  "Our women would die in such a cause," said Zingary; "and those who join us and live with us
      must learn our customs and our habits."  
  "Remember how sudden was the appearance of that man—how awful were his threats—in the middle
      of the night—and a knife, I may say, at my very throat——"  
  "It is a most extraordinary thing, that the very man whom you so much dreaded should have
      happened to seek our hospitality within a fortnight after you had joined us. Am I wrong if I
      entertain a suspicion in that respect? You knew that the bag, which every night was deposited
      beneath my head, contained not only the greater part of the gold which you brought us, but
      also the year's contributions from the tribes and districts: you knew all this, because we had
      no secrets from you. Then, perhaps, you were tired of our company; and you imagined that it
      would be an easy thing to make your peace with that man whom you so much feared, by putting
      him in possession of a larger treasure than the one you plundered from him,—a treasure, too,
      which you might hope to share with him."  
  "As I live, that was not the case!" cried the Rattlesnake, energetically. "You know that I
      have never stirred out of this house once since I first crossed the threshold: how, then,
      could I communicate with that man?"  
  "Where there is a will, there generally is a way, Margaret," answered the king. "Have you
      any thing further to urge in your defence?"  
  "I have told the truth," replied the woman; "what more can I say?"  
  "Then you may retire," said Zingary.  
  Two gipsy-men led her from the room; and those who remained behind proceeded to deliberate
      upon the case.  
  The whole affair was viewed in an aspect most unfavourable to the Rattlesnake; and when
      Skilligalee volunteered an argument in her defence, he was reminded that he only sate at that
      board by sufferance, because he was known to be faithfully attached to the Zingarees, but that
      he was not one of either race.  
  When the question had been duly discussed by the Secret Tribunal, the king put the point at
      issue to the vote—  Guilty  , or   Not Guilty  .  
  The decision of the majority was "Guilty."  
  The Rattlesnake was then ordered to be brought back to the room.  
  When she again stood in the presence of her judges, Zingary addressed her in the following
      manner:—  
   country's tribunals redress for what such criminal might deem to be an injustice
      practised by this court. That penalty is death!"  
  "Death!" wildly screamed Margaret Flathers: "oh, no—you would not, could not murder me in
      cold blood!"  
  "Death," solemnly repeated Zingary;—"death in the usual manner, according to the laws which
      this Tribunal was instituted to dispense."  
  "Death!" again cried the unhappy woman, scarcely believing what she heard: "no—it is
      impossible! You will not kill me—you cannot cut me off so soon! I am not prepared to die—I
      have led a wicked life, and must have time to repent. Spare me! But—do not keep me in this
      dreadful suspense! Oh! I can understand that you wish to strike me with terror—to read me a
      terrible lesson. Well—you have succeeded! Expel me from your society—thrust me out of your
      house; but——"  
  "Remove her," interrupted Zingary, firmly; but at the same time a tear trickled down his
      countenance.  
  The two gipsies who had before led the Rattlesnake from the room, now dragged her forcibly
      away; while her piercing screams struck to the hearts of those who heard them.  
  "When is the sentence to be executed?" inquired Skilligalee, in a subdued and mournful
      tone.  
  "Within the hour," answered the king. "You may converse with her up to the fatal
      moment."  
  Skilligalee bowed, and left the room.  
  "Let the Traveller be now introduced," said Zingary.  
  Crankey Jem,—against whom, the reader may remember, the Resurrection Man had turned Crown
      evidence at the same sessions of the Central Criminal Court at which Richard Markham and Eliza
      Sidney were tried and condemned,—was now brought into the room.  
  "You have conducted yourself in a manner calculated to involve us all in a most serious
      difficulty," said the king, addressing this individual; "and we are compelled to rid ourselves
      of your presence without delay. You have been treated with hospitality by us: reward us by
      maintaining the most profound secresy relative to all you have seen or heard since you have
      been our companion and guest. Depart—and may you always be ready and willing to serve a
      Zingaree."  
  "I will—I will," answered Jem: "night and day—in any case—I will risk my life for one of
      you. I do not blame you for expelling me; in fact, I should have left you in the morning of my
      own accord. London is no place for an escaped convict; and I shall not be sorry to leave it.
      But, answer me one question before I go: is   that man   dead?"  
  "We shall give you no information on that head," answered Zingary. "Depart, my friend—and
      trouble us with your presence no longer. You have gold—and may you prosper."  
  Crankey Jem bowed to the gipsies; and, having thanked them for their hospitality and
      kindness towards him, took his departure from the palace.  
  The gipsies retained their seats; but not a word was spoken by any one present.  
  At length the great bell on the staircase was struck three times. At this signal the king
      rose and walked slowly out of the room, followed by the other gipsies.  
  The procession moved with solemn pace, and in dead silence, to the back part of the house,
      where it descended a flight of stone steps into a place used as a scullery. There Skilligalee,
      Margaret Flathers, and the two gipsy-gaolers who had charge of the criminal, were waiting.  
  A single candle burned in the place, and its dim fitful light rather augmented than
      diminished the gloom.  
  Margaret was absorbed in the most profound grief and terror; and her mental sufferings were
      revealed in heart-rending sobs.  
  The nature of her doom had already been communicated to her!  
  Skilligalee's countenance was ashy pale; but, much as he felt, he knew the Zingarees too
      well to undertake the vain task of imploring their mercy on behalf of the culprit.  
  "Is every thing ready?" demanded the king.  
  "Every thing," answered one of the gipsy-gaolers.  
  With these words the man opened a massive door leading into a cellar, at the end of which
      there was another door, affording admittance into a second and smaller vault.  
  "Margaret," cried the king, in a loud tone, "your doom is prepared. Brethren, take warning
      against treachery and ingratitude from this last act of justice!"  
  The two gipsies who had been entrusted with the custody of the criminal, raised her between
      them, and bore her through the first cellar into the interior vault.  
  But she uttered not a scream—nor a sob: she had fallen into a state of apathy bordering upon
      insensibility, the moment the rough hands of those men had touched her.  
  Skilligalee's lips were compressed; and he evidently experienced immense difficulty in
      restraining his feelings.  
  Margaret was deposited on a mattress in the inner cell: a loaf of bread and pitcher of water
      had already been placed upon a shelf in one corner of the dungeon.  
  The door was then closed and carefully bolted.  
  The door of the outer cellar was also shut; and thus was the wretched woman entombed
      alive.  
  But as the procession of Zingarees turned to leave the vicinity of that fearful scene of
      punishment, a faint shriek—though not the less expressive of bitter agony in consequence of
      its indistinctness—fell upon the ears of those who had witnessed the sepulture of a living
      being.  
  
  EPILOGUE TO VOLUME I.  
  THUS far have we pursued our adventurous theme; and though we have already told so much, how
      much more does there remain yet to tell!  
  Said we not, at the outset, that we would introduce our readers to a city of strange
      contrasts? and who shall say that we have not fulfilled our promise?  
  But as yet we have only drawn the veil partially aside from the mighty panorama of grandeur
      and misery which it is our task to display:—the reader has still to be initiated more deeply
      into the   Mysteries of London  .  
   lesson to teach every class of society;—a moral and a lesson whose themes are
         WEALTH. | POVERTY.    
  For we have constituted ourselves the scourge of the oppressor, and the champion of the
      oppressed: we have taken virtue by the hand to raise it, and we have seized upon vice to
      expose it; we have no fear of those who sit in high places; but we dwell as emphatically upon
      the failings of the educated and rich, as on the immorality of the ignorant and poor.  
  We invite all those who have been deceived to come around us, and we will unmask the
      deceiver;—we seek the company of them that drag the chains of tyranny along the rough
      thoroughfares of the world, that we may put the tyrant to shame;—we gather around us all those
      who suffer from vicious institutions, that we may expose the rottenness of the social
      heart.  
  Crime, oppression, and injustice prosper for a time; but, with nations as with individuals,
      the day of retribution must come. Such is the lesson which we have yet to teach.  
  And let those who have perused what we have already written, pause ere they deduce therefrom
      a general moral;—for as yet they cannot anticipate our design, nor read our end.  
  No:—for we have yet more to write, and they have more to learn, of the   Mysteries of
       London  .  
  Strange as many of the incidents already recorded may be deemed,—wild and fanciful as much
      of our narrative up to this point may appear,—we have yet events more strange, and episodes
      more seemingly wild and fanciful, to narrate in the ensuing volume.  
  For the word "  London  " constitutes a theme whose details, whether of good or of
      evil, are inexhaustible: nor knew we, when we took up our pen to enter upon the subject, how
      vast—how mighty—how comprehensive it might be!  
  Ye, then, who have borne with us thus far, condescend to follow us on to the end:—we can
      promise that the spirit which has animated us up to this point will not flag as we prosecute
      our undertaking;—and, at the close, we feel convinced that more than one will be enabled to
      retrospect over some good and useful sentiment which will have been awakened in his soul by
      the perusal of "  The Mysteries of London  ."  
  END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.  
  P. P. THOMS, PRINTER, 12, WARWICK SQUARE, LONDON.  
  
  
  THE MYSTERIES OF LONDON.   
  BY   
  GEORGE W. M. REYNOLDS,   
  AUTHOR OF "PICKWICK ABROAD,"" THE MODERN LITERATURE OF FRANCE," "ROBERT MACAIRE," ETC.  
  WITH NUMEROUS ILLUSTRATIONS   
  BY G. STIFF.   
  VOL. II.   
  LONDON:GEORGE VICKERS, 3, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND.   
  MDCCCXLVI.  
  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  CHAPTER CXXXVII.   RATS' CASTLE.  
  Richard Markham, though perfectly unpretending in manner and somewhat reserved or even
      sedate in disposition, possessed the most undaunted courage. Thus was it that, almost
      immediately recovering himself from the sudden check which he had experienced at the hands of
      the Resurrection Man, he hurried in pursuit of the miscreant, followed by the policeman and
      the people whom the alarm which he had given had called to his aid.  
  The people were, however, soon tired of running gratuitously for an object which they could
      scarcely comprehend; but the police-officer kept close to Markham; and they were speedily
      reinforced by two other constables, who, seeing that something was the matter, and with
      characteristic officiousness, immediately joined them.  
  From an inquiry put to the waterman of the adjacent cab-stand, who had seen a person running
      furiously along a moment or two before, Markham felt convinced that the object of his pursuit
      had plunged into the maze of Saint Giles's; and, though well aware of the desperate character
      of that individual, and conscious that should he encounter him alone in some dark alley or
      gloomy court, a fearful struggle must ensue between them, he did not hesitate, unarmed as he
      was, to dash into that thicket of dangerous habitations.  
  him to keep with them, as they were unacquainted with the person of whom he was in
      pursuit,—forgetting every measure of precaution in the ardour of the chase, Richard rushed
      headlong through the dark and ill-paved streets, following the echo of every retreating
      footstep which he heard, and stopping only to scrutinise the countenances of those who, in the
      obscurity of the hour and place, seemed at first sight to resemble the exterior of the
      Resurrection Man.  
  Vain was his search. At length, exhausted, he sate down on the steps of a door-way to
      recover his breath, after having expended an hour in his fruitless search up one street, down
      another, and in every nook and corner of that district which we have before described as the
      Holy Land.  
  Accident shortly led the officers, who had originally entered upon the chase with him, to
      the spot where he was seated.  
  "Here is the gentleman himself," said one, turning the glare of his bull's-eye full upon our
      hero.  
  "No luck, I suppose, sir?" observed another. "You had much better have remained with us and
      given us some idea of the person that you want."  
  "Fool that I was!" exclaimed Markham, now perceiving his imprudence in that respect: "I have
      left you to pursue a shadow, instead of depicting to you the substance. But surely the name of
      Anthony Tidkins——"  
  "The Resurrection Man, as they call him," hastily remarked one of the constables.  
  "The same," answered Markham.  
  "Why—he blew himself up, along with some others and a number of our men, last year, down in
      Bethnal Green," said the constable who had last spoken.  
  "No—he lives, he lives," exclaimed Richard, impatiently. "My God! I know him but too
      well."  
  "And it was after him that you gave the alarm just now in Tottenham Court Road?"  
  "It was. I knew him at once—I could not be mistaken: his voice, laden with a curse, still
      rings in my ears."  
  "Well, since the gentleman's so positive, I 'spose it must be so," said the constable: "we
      musn't sleep upon it, mates. Ten to one that Tidkins has taken to burrow in one of the low
      cribs about here; and he means to lie quiet for two or three days till the alarm's blown over.
      I know the dodges of these fellers. You two go the round of Plumptre Street; and me and this
      gentleman will just take a promiscuous look into the kens about here."  
  The two constables to whom these words were addressed, immediately departed upon the mission
      proposed to them, and Richard signified his readiness to accompany the officer who had thus
      settled the plan of proceedings.  
  "We'll go first to Rats' Castle, sir, if you please," said the policeman: "that is the most
      likely place for a run-away to take refuge in at random."  
  "What is Rats' Castle?" asked Markham, as he walked by the officer's side down a wretched
      alley, almost as dark as pitch, and over the broken pavement of which he stumbled at every
      step.  
  "The night-house where all kind of low people meet to sup and lodge," was the reply. "But
      here we are—and you'll see all about it in an instant."  
  They had stopped at the door of a house with an area protected by thick wooden palings. All
      the upper part of the dwelling appeared to be involved in total darkness: but lights streamed
      through the chinks of the rude shutters of the area-windows; and from the same direction
      emanated boisterous merriment, coarse laughter, and wild hurrahs.  
  "You knock at the door, sir, if you please," said the policeman, "while I stand aside. I'll
      slip in after you; for if they twig my coat, and Tidkins really happens to be there, they'd
      give him the office to bolt before we could get in."  
  "Well thought of," returned Markham. "But upon what plea am I to claim admittance?"  
  "As a stranger, impelled by curiosity. You carry the silver key in your pocket."  
  The policeman withdrew a few paces; and our hero knocked boldly at the door.  
  A gruff voice challenged the visitor from the area.  
  "Who's here?"  
  "No one that will do you any harm," replied Richard. "I am anxious to witness the interior
      of this establishment; and here is half-a-crown for you if you can gratify my curiosity."  
  "That's English, any how," said the voice, softening in its tone. "Stop a minute."  
  Markham heard a door close in the area below; and in a few moments the bolts were drawn back
      inside the one at which he was standing.  
  "Now then, my ben-cull—in with you," said a man, as he opened the front door, and held a
      candle high up above his head at the same time.  
  Markham stepped into a narrow passage, and placed his foot against the door in such a way as
      to keep it open. But the precaution was unnecessary, for the policeman had glided in almost
      simultaneously with himself.  
  "Now, no noise, old feller," said the constable, in a hasty whisper to the man who had
      opened the door: "our business isn't with any of your set."  
  "Wery good," returned the porter of Rats' Castle: "you know best—it isn't for me to say
      nothink."  
  "Go first, sir," whispered the officer to Markham. "You seem to know   him   better
      than me, for I never saw him but once—and then only for a minute or two."  
  "Which way?" demanded Richard.  
  "Straight on—and then down stairs. You keep behind us, old feller," added the policeman,
      turning to the porter.  
  Markham descended a flight of narrow and precipitate steps, and at the bottom found himself
      in a large room formed of two kitchens thrown into one.  
  Two long tables running parallel to each other the entire length of the place, were laid out
      for supper,—the preparations consisting of a number of greasy napkins spread upon either
      board, and decorated with knives and forks all chained to the tables. Iron plates to eat off,
      galley-pots and chipped tea-cups filled with salt, three or four pepper-boxes, and two small
      stone jars containing mustard, completed the preparations for the evening meal.  
  The room was lighted by means of a number of candles disposed in tin shades around the
      walls; and as no one gave himself the trouble to snuff them, the wicks were long, and infested
      with what housewives denominate "thieves," while the tallow streamed down in large flakes,
      dripping on the floor, the seats, or the backs of the guests.  
  watching the proceedings of an old blear-eyed woman, who was occupied at an immense
      fire at the farther end of the room, were about thirty or forty persons, male and female. And
      never did Markham's eyes glance upon a more extraordinary—a more loathsome—a more revolting
      spectacle than that assemblage of rags, filth, disease, deformity, and ugliness.  
  Mendicants, vagabonds, impostors, and rogues of all kinds were gathered in that room, the
      fetid heat of which was stifling. The horrible language of which they made use,—their
      frightful curses,—their obscene jests,—their blasphemous jokes, were calculated to shock the
      mind of the least fastidious:—it was indeed a scene from which Markham would have fled as from
      a nest of vipers, had not a stern duty to society and to himself urged him to penetrate
      farther into that den.  
  The appearance of himself and the policeman did not produce any remarkable degree of
      sensation amongst the persons assembled: they were accustomed to the occasional visits of
      well-dressed strangers, who repaired thither to gratify curiosity; and the presence of the
      officers of justice was a matter of frequent occurrence when any great robbery had been
      perpetrated in the metropolis, and while the culprits remained undiscovered.  
  "He is not here," whispered Markham to his companion, after casting a hasty but penetrating
      glance around.  
  "He may come: this is the most likely place in Saint Giles's for him to visit," returned the
      policeman. "We will wait half-an-hour."  
  Richard would gladly have retired; but he was ashamed to exhibit a disgust which the officer
      might mistake for fear. He accordingly seated himself at a small side-table, in compliance
      with a sign from his companion.  
  A waiter, wearing an apron which, by its colour, seemed also to do the duty of dish-cloth,
      now accosted them, and said, "Please to order anythink, gen'lemen?"  
  "Two glasses of brandy-and-water," replied the constable.  
  This command was speedily complied with; and, a few minutes afterwards, supper was served up
      on the two long tables before described. The old woman who presided over the culinary
      department of the establishment had amply catered for those present. Legs of mutton, both
      roasted and boiled,—rounds of beef, flanked with carrots,—huge pies,—boiled legs of
      pork,—immense quantities of sausages,—and sheep's heads, constituted the staple of the
      banquet. These viands, accompanied by piles of smoking potatoes "in their jackets" and heaps
      of cabbages, were all served up on iron dishes, from which no thrifty hand ever removed the
      rust.  
  Then commenced the clattering of the knives and forks, the din of which upon the iron
      platters was strangely blended with the rattling of the chains that held them to the tables.
      The boisterous merriment and coarse conversation were for a time absorbed in the interest
      occasioned by the presence of the repast.  
  "What a strange assembly," whispered Markham to the constable.  
  "Strange to   you  , sir—no doubt," was the answer, also delivered in a tone audible
      only to him to whom the words were addressed. "That sturdy feller sitting at the head of the
      nearest table, with the great cudgel between his legs, is one of the class that don't take the
      trouble to clothe themselves in rags, but trust to their insolence to extort alms from females
      walking alone in retired parts. That feller next to him, all in tatters, but who laughs louder
      than any one else, is one of them whining, shivering, snivelling wretches that crouch up in
      doorways on rainy days, and on fine ones sit down on the pavement with '  Starving, but dare
       not beg  ,' chalked on the stone before them. The man over there in sailor's clothes
      tumbled down an area when he was drunk, and broke his leg: he was obliged to have it cut off;
      and so he now passes himself off as one of Nelson's own tars, though he never saw the sea in
      his life. That chap almost naked who's just come in, is going to put on his coat and shoes
      before he sits down to supper; he always goes out begging in that state on rainy days, and is
      a gentleman on fine ones."  
  "I do not understand you," said Markham, astonished at this last observation.  
  "Why, sir," replied the policeman, "there's certain beggars that always turn out half-naked,
      on rainy days, or when the snow's on the ground; and people pity them so much on those
      occasions that the rogues get enough to keep them all through the fine weather. If they have
      wives and children to go out with them, so much the better: but that feller there isn't
      married; and so he goes with a woman who frequents this place, and they hire three or four
      children from the poor people in this neighbourhood, at the rate of two-pence a day each
      child, and its grub. To see them go shivering and whining through the streets, with no shoes
      or stockings, you'd think they were the most miserable devils on the face of the earth; and
      then, to make the scene complete, the man and woman always pinch the little children that they
      carry in their arms, to make them cry, whenever they pass a window when several ladies are
      looking out."  
  "Is this possible?" whispered Markham, his face flushing with indignation.  
  "Possible, sir! Don't I see it all every day of my life? Look at them men and women blowing
      their hides out with all that good meat; and now look at the pots of porter that's coming in.
      Every soul there has sworn a hundred times during the day that he hasn't tasted food for
      forty-eight hours, and will repeat the same story to-morrow. But they all had good suppers
      here last night, and good breakfasts here this morning; and you see how they are faring this
      evening."  
  "But there are real cases deserving of charity?" said Markham, interrogatively,—for he
      almost felt disposed to doubt the fact.  
  "Certainly there are, sir," was the reply; "but it's very difficult for such as you to
      decide between the true and the false. Look at that man who carves at the second table: he can
      see well enough to cut himself the tit-bits; but to-morrow he will be totally blind in one of
      the fashionable squares."  
  "Totally blind!" said Richard, more and more astonished at what he heard.  
  "Yes, sir—totally blind; led by a dog, and with a placard upon his chest. He keeps his eyes
      fast shut, and colours the lids with carmine and vermilion. But that is nothing. That feller
      next to him, who uses his knife and fork so well, will to-morrow have lost his right arm at
      the battle of Salamanca."  
  "But how can that imposture be effected?"  
  "His right arm is concealed under his clothes, and the coat-sleeve hangs down
      loose," replied the constable. "That tall stout man who has just jumped so nimbly over the
      form in his way back to his place, has walked on crutches in the streets for the last twenty
      years; and when you see him so, you would think he could hardly drag himself along. The feller
      over there is a frozen-out gardener in winter, and a poor Spitalfields' weaver in summer. The
      one next to him will have a black patch over his left eye to-morrow; and yet you may see that
      it is as good as his right. The short man opposite to him bends his left leg back, and has a
      wooden one to support the knee, when he is in the street. That woman there has been dressed in
      widows' weeds for the last fifteen years, and always has a troop of six children with her; but
      the children never grow any bigger, for she hires fresh ones every year or so."  
  "This is the most extraordinarily combined mass of contradictions and deceptions I ever
      gazed upon," whispered Markham.  
  "You may well say that, sir," said the policeman. "The ragged feller down at the bottom of
      the second table sits as upright as you or me: well, in the streets he crawls along the ground
      with two iron supporters in his hands. He is the most insolent feller in London. The man next
      to him goes about on a sort of van, or chaise, and the world believes that he has no legs at
      all; but they are all the time concealed in the body of the vehicle, and the stumps of the
      thighs which are seen are false. Those three hulking chaps over there, sitting with the three
      women that laugh so much, are begging-letter impostors. The eldest of the three men has been
      seventeen years at the business, and has been in prison twenty-eight times. One day he is a
      bricklayer who has fallen from a scaffold, and broken his leg, and has a wife and eleven young
      children dependent on him; another day he is a licensed clergyman of the Church of England,
      but unemployed for two years—wife and six children totally dependent on him. Then he changes
      into a stanch Tory, ruined by his attachment to the cause, and proscribed by all his friends
      on account of his principles: in this shape he addresses himself to the old Tory noblemen, and
      makes a good harvest. The very next day he becomes a determined and stanch Reformer, who lost
      his employment through giving his vote for the Tower Hamlets to the liberal candidate at the
      last election, and has since met with an uninterrupted series of misfortunes—sold up by a Tory
      landlord,—his wife been dead only a fortnight, and seven motherless children left dependent on
      him. This kind of letter always draws well. Then he becomes a paralytic with an execution in
      his house; or a Spitalfields' weaver, with nine children, two of which are cripples, and one
      blind; or else a poor Scotch schoolmaster, come to London on business, and robbed by designing
      knaves of the means of returning to his own country. The women are just as bad. They are
      either wives with husbands in hospitals and bed-ridden mothers; or daughters with helpless
      parents and sick brothers and sisters dependent on them;—and so on."  
  "But if you be aware of all these monstrous impositions, why do you not interfere to protect
      the public?" inquired Markham.  
  "Lord, sir!" said the constable, "if we took up all persons that we know to be impostors, we
      should have half London in custody. We only interfere when specially called upon, or when we
      see cases so very flagrant that we can't help taking notice of them. Some of these chaps that
      are eating here so hearty now, will seem to be dying in the streets to-morrow."  
  "Merciful heavens, what a city of deceit and imposture is this!" observed Richard, painfully
      excited by the strange details which he had just heard. "Were the interior of this den but
      once exposed to general view, charity would be at an end, and the deserving poor would suffer
      for the unprincipled impostor."  
  "True enough, sir. And now look—the cloth is removed, and every one is ordering in something
      strong to wash down the supper. There goes a crown-bowl of punch—that's for the begging-letter
      impostors: and there's glasses of punch, and cold spirits and water, and shrub, and negus.
      That's the way they do it, you see, sir."  
  Markham did indeed see, and wondered more and more at what he so saw—until his feelings of
      surprise changed into sentiments of ineffable abhorrence and disgust; and he longed to leave
      that odious den.  
  "The person whom we seek does not appear to come," he said, after a long interval of
      silence. "Two hours have elapsed—and we are only wasting time here."  
  "He must have taken refuge in some other crib, sir," returned the constable. "Let us leave
      this one, and make the round of the other lodging-houses in this street."  
  Markham was glad to hurry away from Rats' Castle, the mysteries of which had so painfully
      shocked his generous feelings.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXVIII.   A PUBLIC FUNCTIONARY.  
  Urged by that sense of duty to which we have before alluded, and which prompted him to
      neglect no step that might lead to the discovery of a great criminal's lurking-place, Richard
      accompanied the police-officer to various houses where the dregs of the population herded
      together.  
  The inspection of a plague-hospital could not have been more appalling: the scrutiny of a
      lazar-house could not have produced deeper disgust.  
  In some the inmates were engaged in drunken broils, the women enacting the part of furies:
      in others the females sang obscene songs, the men joining in the chorus.  
  Here a mother waited until her daughter should return with the wages of prostitution, to
      purchase the evening meal: there a husband boasted that his wife was enabled, by the
      liberality of a paramour, to supply him with ample means for his night's debauchery.  
  In one house which our hero and the constable visited, three sisters of the respective ages
      of eleven, thirteen, and fourteen, were comparing the produce of their evening's
      avocations,—the avocations of the daughters of crime!  
  And then those three children, having portioned out the necessary amount for their suppers
      and their lodging that night, and their breakfast next morning, laughed joyously as they
      perceived how much they had left to purchase gin!  
  For   Gin   is the deity, and   Intemperance   is the hand-maiden, of
      both sexes and nearly all ages in that district of London.  
  What crimes, what follies have been perpetrated for Gin! A river of alcohol rolls through
      the land, sweeping away health, honour, and happiness with its remorseless tide. The creaking
      gibbet, and the prison ward—the gloomy hulk, and the far-off penal isle—the debtors' gaol, and
      the silent penitentiary—the tomb-like workhouse, and the loathsome hospital—the galling chain,
      and the spirit-breaking tread-wheel—the frightful mad-cell, and the public dissecting-room—the
      death-bed of despair, and the grave of the suicide, are indebted for many, many victims to
      thee, most potent   Gin  !  
    O Gin!   the Genius of Accidents and the Bad Angel of Offences worship thee! Thou art
      the Juggernaut beneath whose wheels millions throw themselves in blind adoration.  
  The pawnbroker points to thee and says, "Whilst thy dominion lasts, I am sure to
      thrive."  
  The medical man smiles as he marks thy progress, for he knows that thou leadest a ghastly
      train,—apoplexy, palsy, dropsy, delirium tremens, consumption, madness.  
  The undertaker chuckles when he remembers thine influence, for he says within himself, "Thou
      art the Angel of Death."  
  And Satan rejoices in his kingdom, well-knowing how thickly it can be populated by thee!  
  Yes—great is thy power,   O Gin  : thou keepest pace with the progress of civilisation,
      and thou art made the companion of the Bible. For when the missionary takes the Word of God to
      the savage in some far distant clime, he bears the fire-water with him at the same time. While
      his right hand points to the paths of peace and salvation, his left scatters the seeds of
      misery, disease, death, and damnation!  
  Yes—great is thy power, O Gin: a terrible instrument of evil art thou. Thou sweepest over
      the world with the wing of the pestilence: thy breath that of a plague:—like the poisonous
      garment of Dejanira on the burning limbs of the Centaur, dost thou cling around thy
      victims.  
  And where the grave-yard is heaped up with mouldering bones—and where disease and death
      prevail in all their most hideous shapes—and where misery is most keenly felt, and poverty is
      most pinching—and where the wails of hapless children ascend to heaven in vain appeal against
      the cruelty of inhuman parents—and where crime is most diabolical,—there are thy
      triumphs—there are thy victories!  
  But to continue.  
  The clock of St. Giles's Church proclaimed the hour of midnight; and though our hero and the
      constable had visited many of the low dens and lodging-houses in the Holy Land, still their
      search was without success.  
  "Unless my mates have been more lucky than us," observed the policeman, halting at the
      corner of a street, "we must conclude that the bird is flown."  
  "And even if they should chance to enter a house where the miscreant has taken refuge, how
      would they be enabled to recognise him?" asked Richard.  
  "One of them knows him well," replied the constable.  
  At that moment a violent scream issued from the upper part of the house close to which
      Markham and the constable were standing.  
  The dwelling was high, narrow, and, if possible, more gloomy, when viewed by the feeble rays
      of a watery moon, than the neighbouring houses.  
  From the uppermost window streamed a strong light, which danced upon the black wall of the
      building opposite, making the sombre appearance of the locality the more sinister as it was
      the more visible.  
  That scream, which expressed both horror and agony, caused Markham to start with momentary
      consternation.  
  The constable did not, however, appear surprised; but merely observed with a strange
      coolness, "Ah! there's Smithers at his old tricks again."  
  "And who is Smithers?" inquired Richard.  
  But before the constable could reply to the question, the window, whence the light emanated,
      was thrown up with crashing violence, and a female voice shrieked for assistance.  
  "Had we not bettor ascertain what is the matter here?" exclaimed Markham, hastily.  
  "I dare not force an entry, unless there's a cry of '  Murder  ,'" answered the
      officer.  
  Scarcely were these words uttered when the sound of a heavy blow, like that of a thong or
      leathern strap upon a person's back, echoed along the street; and then terrific shrieks,
      mingled with cries of "  Murder!  " issued from the open window.  
  In another instant the female was dragged away from the casement by some one in the room
      where this scene occurred; then the blows were resumed with frightful severity, and the
      screams and cries continued in a more appalling manner than at first.  
  Immediately afterwards, and just as the constable was preparing to force an entry, some one
      was heard to rush precipitately down the stairs inside the house: the door opened, and a
      strange-looking being darted madly into the street.  
  "Now, Gibbet," cried the policeman, catching the hump-backed lad—for such Markham perceived
      him to be—by the collar, "what's all this about?"  
  "Oh! you are an officer!" exclaimed the hump-back, in a tone of surprise and delight: "for
      God's sake come up—father's murdering Kate!"  
  The screams and the sounds of the blows still continuing up stairs, the constable did not
      hesitate to comply with the request of the deformed lad whom he had saluted by the singular
      name of Gibbet; and Markham hastened after him, anxious to render any assistance that might be
      required at his hands.  
  The policeman and our hero hurried up the narrow stairs, lighted by the officer's
      bull's-eye; and speedily reached the room whence the screams had emanated.  
  But we must pause for a moment to describe that apartment, and to give the reader some idea
      of the inmates of the house to which we have introduced him.  
  The room was situated at the top of the house, and bore the appearance of a loft, there
      being no ceiling to conceal the massive beams and spars which supported the angular roof.  
  somewhat over the right shoulder; and it was waving gently backwards and forwards,
      as if it had been recently disturbed. The arms were pinioned behind; and the hands, which were
      made more or less life-like by means of dingy white kid gloves, were curled up as it were in a
      last convulsion. In a word, it presented the exact appearance of a man hanging.  
  Markham started back when his eyes first fell on this sinister object; but a second glance
      convinced him that the figure was only a puppet.  
  This second survey brought to his view other features, calculated to excite his wonder and
      curiosity, in that strange apartment.  
  The figure already described was suspended in such a way that its lower extremity was about
      a foot from the ground; but it was concealed nearly up to the knees by a small scaffold, or
      large black box, it having been suffered to fall that much through a trap-door made like a
      drop in the platform of that diminutive stage.  
  From this strange spectacle,—which, in all respects, was a perfect representation of an
      execution—Markham's eyes wandered round the loft.  
  The walls—the rough brick-work of which was smeared over with white-wash,—were covered with
      rude pictures, glaringly coloured and set in common black wooden frames. These pictures were
      such as are sold in low neighbourhoods for a few pence each, and representing scenes in the
      lives of remarkable highwaymen, murderers, and other criminals who had ended their days upon
      the scaffold. The progress of Jack Sheppard to the gibbet at Tyburn,—the execution of Jonathan
      Wild,—Turpin's ride to York,—Sawney Bean and his family feasting off human flesh in their
      cave,—Hunt and Thurtell throwing the body of Mr. Weare into the pond,—Corder murdering Maria
      Martin at the Red Barn,—James Greenacre cutting up the corpse of Hannah Brown,—such were the
      principal subjects of that Gallery of Human Enormity.  
  But as if these pictorial mementos of crime and violent death were not sufficient to gratify
      the strange taste of the occupants of that apartment, some hand, which was doubtless the agent
      of an imagination that loved to "sup full of horrors," had scrawled with a burnt stick upon
      the wall various designs of an equally terrific nature. Gibbets of all forms, and criminals in
      all the different stages of their last minutes in this life, were there represented. The
      ingenuity of the draughtsman had even suggested improvements in the usual modes of execution,
      and had delineated drops, halters, and methods of pinioning on new principles!  
  Every thing in that spacious loft savoured of the scaffold!  
  Oh! had the advocates of capital punishment but been enabled to glance upon that scene of
      horrors, they would have experienced a feeling of dire regret that any system which they had
      supported could have led to such an exhibition!  
  But to proceed.  
  On a rude board which served as a mantel over the grate, was a miniature gibbet, about eight
      inches high, and suspended to the horizontal beam of which was a mouse—most scientifically
      hung with a strong piece of pack-thread.  
  The large silver watch belonging to the principal inmate of the house was suspended to a
      horizontal piece of wood, with an oblique supporter, projecting from the wall above the
      fire-place.  
  In one corner of the room was a bed, over which flowed curtains of a coarse yellow material;
      and even these were suspended to a spar arranged and propped up like the arm of a gibbet.  
  A table, on which the supper things still remained, and half a dozen chairs, completed the
      contents of this strange room.  
  And now a few words relative to the inmates of that house.  
  The hump-backed lad who had rushed down the stairs in the manner already described, was
      about seventeen or eighteen years of age, and so hideously ugly that he scarcely seemed to
      belong to the human species. His hair was fiery red, and covered with coarse and matted curls
      a huge head that would not have been unsuitable for the most colossal form. His face was one
      mass of freckles; his eyes were of a pinkish hue; his eyebrows and lashes were white; and his
      large teeth glittered like dominoes between his thick and blueish lips. His arms were long
      like those of a baboon; but his legs were short; and he was not more than four feet and a half
      high. In spite of his hideous deformity and almost monstrous ugliness, there was an air of
      good-nature about him, combined with an evident consciousness of his own repulsive appearance,
      which could not do otherwise than inspire compassion—if not interest.  
  The moment the policeman, who entered the room first, made his appearance upon the
      threshold, a young female precipitated herself towards him, exclaiming, "For God's sake
      protect me—but do not, do not hurt my uncle!"  
  This girl was about sixteen years of age, and, though not beautiful, possessed a countenance
      whose plaintive expression was calculated to inspire deep interest in her behalf. She was
      tall, and of a graceful figure: her hair was light chesnut; her eyes dark blue, and with a
      deep melancholy characterising their bashful glances; her teeth were small, white, and even.
      Though clad in humble attire, there was something genteel in her appearance,—something
      superior to the place and society in which we now find her.  
  The man from whose cruel blows she implored protection, was of middle height, rather stoutly
      built, with a pale countenance, and an expression of stern hard-heartedness in his large grey
      eyes and compressed lips. He was dressed in a suit which evidently had never been made for
      him,—the blue frock coat being too long in the sleeves, the waistcoat too wide round the
      waist, and the trousers scarcely reaching below the knees.  
  "For God's sake protect me!" exclaimed the young girl, as above stated; "but do not—do not
      hurt my uncle," she added in a tone which proved the sincerity of the prayer.  
  "Come, come, Master Smithers," said the constable, "this won't do: you musn't alarm the
      neighbourhood in this manner."  
  "Why, then, does she interfere between me and Gibbet?" cried the man brutally, at the same
      time flourishing a thick leathern thong in his right hand.  
  "She does it out of good-nature, I suppose," observed the constable. "Every one knows how
      shameful you treat your son Gibbet; and this poor gal takes her cousin's part."  
  At these words the hump-back cast a timid but affectionate glance towards
      Katherine, who, on her part, threw a look of profound compassion upon the unfortunate lad.  
  "She does it out of good-nature, does she?" repeated the man: "then why won't he learn my
      business? He never can be fit for any other. But, no—the moment I leave him, he is off to the
      side of Miss there; and she makes him read in her outlandish books, so that he despises his
      father and the business that he must take to, sooner or later."  
  "But you ought not to beat Miss Katherine, Smithers," reiterated the policeman. "The next
      time I hear the cry of '  Murder  ' in your house I'll walk you off to the station—and
      that's all about it."  
  "I suppose that I may leather my own son if I choose?" said the man, savagely.  
  "You ought to remember that he is deformed through your cruelty," cried the constable, "and
      that his mother died of fright and grief——"  
  "Hold your tongue, blue-bottle!" interrupted Smithers, his lips quivering with rage. "It
      isn't for you to come and make mischief in a family. Get out with you!"  
  "But if we leave this poor girl to the rage of her uncle," said Markham to the constable,
      whom he drew aside and thus addressed in a whisper, "he will do her some injury."  
  "What is to be done with her, sir?" demanded the officer. "Smithers says she is his
      niece——"  
  "Is it not certain that she stands in such a degree of relationship towards him?" inquired
      our hero, whose humane heart was moved in favour of the suffering girl.  
  "Now, then, what are you chattering about there?" ejaculated Smithers. "I want to go to bed:
      Gibbet, you be off to your room—and, Kate, you go to yours. This is mine—and I should advise
      the blue-bottle with his spy in plain clothes to make themselves scarce."  
  "Remember, I shall report you to our serjeant," said the policeman; "and he will tell the
      Division to keep an eye on you."  
  "Tell him whatever you like," returned the man doggedly.  
  The hump-back and Katherine had already left the room in obedience to the command of
      Smithers.  
  The constable repeated a caution to the ruffian who had ill-used them, and then took his
      departure, followed by Richard Markham.  
  When they were once more in the street, our hero said to his companion, "Who is that
      man?"  
  "The   Public Executioner  ," was the reply.  
  
  CHAPTER CXXXIX.   THE CONFIDENCE.  
  So astounded was Markham by this information, that for some moments he was unable to utter a
      word.  
  "I see that you are surprised, sir," said the policeman; "but couldn't you guess where you
      was when you saw the room filled with gibbets, real or in pictures?"  
  "It never struck me who the owner of those terrific symbols might be," answered Richard. "I
      concluded that some man of morbid taste dwelt there; but not for one moment did I imagine that
      I was in the presence of the public executioner."  
  "Did you ever see such a horrible-looking object as his son is?" asked the policeman.  
  "Poor creature—he is greatly to be pitied! Surely his father cannot in reality have
      conferred upon him the name by which you called him?"  
  "I don't suppose that Gibbet is his real name, sir, but it is the only one I ever heard him
      called by. You see, sir, Smithers wishes to bring the lad up to the same line: he wants an
      assistant, and he thinks that Gibbet is old enough to help him. Besides, there's plenty of
      work always after Assizes in the country; and the London hangman may get the jobs if he likes.
      He's considered more skilful than any one else; and, after all, practice makes perfect. As it
      is, he is forced to refuse a good many offers, because he can't be here, there, and
      everywhere. Now if Gibbet would only take to the business kindly, he might help his father to
      earn a fortune!"  
  "But if the poor lad have a loathing for the horrible avocation—as well he may," observed
      Markham, with a shudder, "why should he be forced to embrace it?"  
  "Because he can never do himself good elsewhere," answered the constable. "Who will employ
      the son of Jack Ketch? Why, will you believe it, sir, that not a soul visits Smithers' family?
      Although he lives in this neighbourhood, where, God knows, people ain't over nice and
      partickler, not a human being would cross his threshold."  
  "Does that aversion arise from disgust or superstition?" demanded Markham.  
  "From both, sir," was the reply. "The people that live in this district are of two kinds—the
      poor and ignorant, and the rogues and vagabonds. The poor and ignorant are afraid of the
      public executioner; and the rogues and vagabonds hate him, although he's merely an instrument.
      Miss Kate goes to market for him; and the shop-keepers that know who she is, are scarcely
      civil to her. They seem as if they'd rather she'd keep away."  
  "And you say that she is the executioner's niece?" observed Markham.  
  "Smithers says so himself," was the reply; "and of course I know nothing to the contrary;
      but it does seem strange that so amiable, genteel, and clever, a young gal should belong to
      such a family!"  
  "Her own parents are dead, I presume?"  
  "Yes, sir,—she is an orphan. When Smithers is very dull and miserable with his lonely
      situation, he sometimes comes down to the station and has a chat with us constables; and then
      he's pretty communicative. He told me one day that Katherine's parents had died when she was
      very young, and so he was compelled to take care of her. All the while she was a child
      Smithers let her do pretty well as she liked; and it is a wonder that she has turned out a
      good gal. But she regularly frequented the School established in the parish of Saint David's
      by the Rev. Mr. Tracy; and in that way she picked up a tolerable smattering of knowledge.
      Since then she's instructed herself as much as she could, and has bought books with the little
      money that her needle has produced her."  
  "But who employs her as a sempstress, if, as you say, so terrible a stigma affixes itself to
      each member of the hangman's family?" inquired Richard.  
  friendly disposed towards the poor creature, and gives her work," answered the
      policeman. "Katherine does all she can to console that poor hump-back Gibbet; and she has
      taught him to read and write—aye, and what's more, sir, to pray."  
  "Policeman," said Richard, after a pause, "the manner in which you have spoken relative to
      that poor girl, shows me that you have a good heart. Is there any mode of ameliorating her
      wretched situation? I feel the deepest compassion for her miserable lot; and all you have told
      me of her excellent character makes me anxious to see her removed from the vile society of
      that ruffian under whose roof she lives."  
  "I believe she is anxious to go out to service, sir, or open a little school," answered the
      constable; "but her family connection is against her. Or else I don't think that Smithers
      would care about parting with her."  
  "What induces you to suppose that such are her wishes?" asked Markham.  
  "Because she told me so, sir," was the reply. "One evening I went to Smithers' house, with a
      certain message from the Sheriff of London—you can guess what, I dare say——"  
  "To acquaint him with the day fixed for some wretch's execution, no doubt?"  
  "Precisely, sir; but Smithers wasn't at home, and so I sate down and waited for him. It
      wasn't in Jack Ketch's own room up stairs where we went just now, and where he teaches his son
      how to hang by means of that puppet; but it was in a little parlour they have got down stairs,
      and which Miss Kate keeps as clean and comfortable as if they saw no end of company. Well, I
      got talking to the young gal; and though she never said a single word against her uncle, but
      spoke of him in a grateful and kind manner, she let out that if he   could   spare her,
      she should like to earn her own bread by her own exertions. And then the poor creature burst
      out crying, and said, that no one would take her as a servant, and that she should get no
      scholars even if she was to open a school."  
  Markham made no answer; but he reflected profoundly on all that he had just heard.  
  "Poor gal!" continued the policeman, after a few moments' silence; "she don't deserve to
      suffer as she does. My beat is about this quarter: and I know pretty well all that's going on.
      I see more than other people about here, because I've opportunity and leisure. Besides, it's
      my business. Well, sir, I can assure you that there isn't a more charitable or
      generous-hearted gal in all London than Miss Katherine. If a poor neighbour's ill, it's ten to
      one but some female muffled up in her shawl knocks at the door of the sick person's house,
      leaves a parcel, and runs away; and then there's tea, and sugar, and gruel, for the
      invalid—and no one knows who brought it, or where it comes from. Or if a family's in want, the
      baker calls with bread that's paid for, but won't say who sent it. Or may be it's the butcher
      with a small joint—but always sent in the same quiet manner. Then, while the poor creatures
      whose hearts are made glad by this unlooked-for charity, are wondering whether it was the
      parson, or the parson's wife, or this benevolent gentleman, or that good lady, who sent the
      things, Kate buries herself in her room, and doesn't even think that she has done any thing
      out of the way."  
  "Is this possible?" cried Markham.  
  "I know it, sir—for I've seen her do it all," answered the policeman, "when she couldn't see
      me and little thought that any body noticed her."  
  "And she the niece of the public executioner!" exclaimed Richard: "a pearl concealed in this
      horrible swamp!"  
  The conversation between Markham and the good-hearted constable was cut short by the sudden
      appearance of the other two policemen, who had undertaken to visit the low houses in Plumptre
      Street.  
  "Well, what news?" asked Richard's companion.  
  "None," was the reply. "We have been in every flash crib down yonder, and can't hear or see
      any thing of the Resurrection Man."  
  "Then we must abandon the search for to-night, I presume," said Richard. "The clock has
      struck one, and I begin to be wearied of this fruitless ramble."  
  "We will exert ourselves to discover the miscreant that blew up our comrades in Bethnal
      Green," observed the constable who had been our hero's companion that night. "Should we
      succeed in capturing him, sir, where can I wait upon you to communicate the tidings?"  
  "My name is Markham," was the reply, "and I live at Holloway. If you discover the villain
      Anthony Tidkins, lose not a moment in making me acquainted with the circumstance."  
  Richard then rewarded the three constables liberally for the trouble they had taken; and ere
      he departed from them, he drew aside the one who had been his companion.  
  "My good fellow," he said, slipping an additional sovereign into his hand, "you have too
      kind a heart for the situation which you fill. Should you ever require a friend, hesitate not
      to come to me."  
  "And should you, sir, ever need the humble aid of Morris Benstead, you know the Division I
      belong to, and a note to the chief station will always command my attention."  
  Markham thanked the officer for his civility, and then struck into the nearest street
      leading from the Holy Land to Tottenham Court Road, where he hoped to find a vehicle to take
      him home.  
  But scarcely had he proceeded twenty paces, when he heard hasty footsteps behind him; and,
      turning round, was accosted by a man whose slouched hat almost entirely shaded his
      countenance.  
  "I beg your pardon, sir," said the man; "but I heard you mention two names a few moments ago
      that are familiar to me."  
  "Indeed!" cried our hero, surprised at this strange mode of address.  
  "Yes:—I was lurking in a court, and I heard you say that you were Mr. Richard Markham,"
      resumed the man: "and you mentioned a certain Anthony Tidkins."  
  "I did. Do you know him?" demanded Richard.  
  "But too well," answered the man bitterly.  
  "Who are you?" inquired Markham.  
  "No matter who I am: I know   you  —and I know   him  . I was in a certain place
      at the same time that you were there; though we were not in the same ward. But I heard all
      about you   then  ; and when you mentioned your name just now, I felt sure you was the
      same person. Has Tidkins ever injured you?"  
  "Cruelly," replied Richard. "But I am not influenced by petty motives of revenge: I am
      anxious to deliver a monster into the grasp of justice."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And what should you say if you heard that Tidkins was beyond your reach in this world?"  
  "I should rejoice that society was relieved from such a fiend."  
  "Then I think that I can make your mind easy on that score," said the man.  
  "What do you mean?" cried Richard, eagerly.  
  "I mean that this hand has done the law's work," responded the stranger.  
  "You mean—you mean that you yourself have acted the part of an avenger?" said Markham.  
  "Precisely what I   do   mean: in plain terms, I've killed him."  
  "My God! and you tell me this so coolly!" exclaimed Richard. "Whatever that man's crimes may
      be, you are not the less a murderer!"  
  "Pooh—pooh! I should have thought you'd more pluck than to talk in this way. What does it
      matter whether Jack Ketch or a private enemy did the job?"  
  "Where did this happen? when?—how long ago?" inquired Markham, not knowing whether to
      believe the statement thus strangely made to him, or not.  
  "If you really wish to know all about it," said the man, "step up this court, where we can
      talk in peace, and I will tell you. What! you think I am going to hurt you too? Well, be it
      so. Goodnight—or rather good morning."  
  At that moment Saint Giles's Church struck two.  
  "Stay," cried Richard, catching the man by the arm: "I will accompany you."  
  They walked together into a dark court, our hero keeping himself in readiness to resist any
      sudden hostility, were such a proceeding intended.  
  But the man appeared to have no such aim in view, for, leaning himself tranquilly against
      the wall, he said, "Can you keep a secret?"  
  "If I promise to do so," answered Richard.  
  "Then promise not to betray what I am going to tell you."  
  "I promise," said Markham, after some hesitation.  
  of the hospitality of a race of persons, at whose head-quarters—not a hundred
      miles from where we are now standing—I met Anthony Tidkins——"  
  "When?" demanded Richard impatiently.  
  "About two hours ago."  
  "Ah! then it may be true——"  
  "True! what interest have I to tell you a lie? I have been some time in search of that
      villain; and accident threw us together to-night. This dagger——" here he took Markham's hand,
      and made him feel the point of the elastic poniard,—"this dagger drank his life's best
      blood!"  
  Richard could not suppress an ejaculation of horror.  
  The assassin laughed.  
  "Unhappy man," said our hero, "are you not aware that your life may be forfeited on account
      of this deed?"  
  "And this good blade should reach the heart of any one that attempted to take me," was the
      resolute and indeed significant reply.  
  "I promised to betray nothing that you might communicate to me, and I shall keep my word,"
      rejoined Markham, in a firm tone, and without retreating a single step. "Did I wish to forfeit
      my pledge, your dagger would not intimidate me."  
  "You are a brave fellow," cried the stranger; "and all brave men may be trusted. Would you
      like to satisfy yourself, with your own eyes, that Anthony Tidkins has received his death
      wound?"  
  "I should," answered Markham; "both on my own account and on that of society."  
  "And you will not betray the place that I shall take you to, or the people that you may see
      there?"  
  "Most solemnly will I keep your secret."  
  "Come with me, then. I will leave you at the door; and your own ingenuity must obtain you
      admittance. But, one word more: you will not state to any one there that you have met me?"  
  "I will not even allow my motive for visiting the place you speak of to transpire."  
  "I believe all you say. Come!"  
  The man led the way out of the court, accompanied by our hero.  
  They threaded several narrow streets and alleys, and at length stopped at the door of a
      large house.  
  "Knock, and demand shelter: admittance will not, I fancy, be refused."  
  "Is there any danger to be encountered?" asked Markham: "not that I fear it—but I am
      unarmed."  
  "There is no danger. This is the head-quarters of the Gipsies, or Zingarees: they never use
      the dagger or the pistol. And, once more, remember your promise."  
  "I shall not forget it," said Richard. "But, before we separate, answer me one
      question."  
  "Speak—and be speedy," returned the man.  
  "In one word, then, why, when you overheard my conversation with the policeman, did you
      resolve upon making me the confidant of a deed which might send you to the scaffold?"  
  "Because I am proud of that deed," replied the man, grasping Richard forcibly by the wrist,
      and grinding his teeth in horrible triumph;—"because it is the result of four years of pent-up
      yearning after vengeance;—because, in avenging myself, I have avenged all who have suffered
      through that miscreant;—because I am anxious that those who have been injured by him should
      know the fate that has overtaken him at last."  
  With these words, Crankey Jem (whom the reader has doubtless already recognised) disappeared
      precipitately from the spot.  
  
  CHAPTER CXL.   INCIDENTS IN THE GIPSY PALACE.  
  For a few moments Richard remained rooted to the spot where the returned convict had left
      him. He was uncertain how to proceed.  
  Warned by the desperate adventure which had nearly cost him his life at Twig Folly, he
      feared lest the present occurrence might be another scheme of the Resurrection Man to ensnare
      him.  
  Then he reflected that the individual who had just left him, had met him accidentally, and
      had narrated to him circumstances which had every appearance of truth.  
  We have before said that Markham was not a coward—far from it; and he moreover experienced a
      lively curiosity to satisfy himself concerning the fate of an individual whose inveterate
      malignity had so frequently menaced not only his dearest interests, but his life.  
  This reflection decided him; and, without farther hesitation, he knocked boldly at the front
      door of the Gipsies' Palace.  
  Some minutes elapsed ere his summons appeared to have created any attention within; and he
      was about to repeat it, when the door slowly moved on its hinges.  
  But to Markham's surprise no person appeared in the obscure lobby into which the pale moon
      threw a fitful light; in fact, the front door was opened by means of a simple mechanism which
      the porter worked in his lodge overhead.  
  While Markham was lost in wonder at this strange circumstance, the trap was suddenly raised
      above, and a strong light was thrown through it into the lobby.  
  "Who are you?" demanded the gruff voice of the porter.  
  "I seek a few hours' repose and rest," answered Markham.  
  "Who sent you here?"  
  "A person who is a friend to you."  
  "Do you know what place this is?"  
  "Yes—it is the head-quarters of the Zingarees."  
  "So far, so good," said the porter. "Well—wait a few moments—I must see."  
  The trap closed—the lobby was again involved in total darkness; and for the next ten minutes
      the silence of death appeared to reign within the house.  
  At the expiration of that time the inner door was opened:; and the porter, bearing a light,
      appeared.  
  "You may enter," he said. "The Zingarees never refuse hospitality when it can be safely
      granted."  
  Markham crossed the threshold without hesitation.  
  The porter closed both doors with great care.  
  "Follow me," said the man.  
  He then led the way up stairs to the first floor, and conducted our hero into a room where
      there were several beds, all of which were unoccupied.  
  the porter, with a half smile; "and I shall leave you this light. Do you require
      any food?"  
  "None, I thank you."  
  "So I should think," said the man drily, as he surveyed Markham's appearance in a manner
      which seemed to express a wonder why a person in his situation of life had come thither at
      all.  
  We have, however, before observed that curiosity formed but a faint feature of the gipsy
      character; and, even when it existed, it was not expressed in verbal queries. Moreover,
      individuals in a respectable sphere not unfrequently sought in the Holy Land a refuge against
      the officers of the laws which they violated; and hence the appearance of a person had nothing
      to do with the fact of admission into the gipsies' establishment.  
  Nevertheless, the porter did survey Markham in a dubious way for a moment; but whether the
      preceding incidents of the night, or the calm tranquillity of our hero's manner,—so
      inconsistent with the idea that he was anxious to conceal himself from the eyes of
      justice,—excited the suspicions of the porter, it is impossible to say.  
  But that glance of curiosity was only momentary.  
  Averting his eyes from our hero, the porter placed the light upon the floor, wished him a
      good night's rest, and retired.  
  But to the surprise and annoyance of Markham, the gipsy locked the door of the
      apartment.  
  As the key turned with a grating sound, a tremor crept over Richard's frame; and he almost
      repented having sought the interior of an abode the character and inmates of which were almost
      entirely unknown to him. Indeed, all that he knew of either was derived from the meagre
      information of the man (and that man an acknowledged assassin!) who had induced him to visit
      the place where he now found himself.  
  "How weak I am to yield to this sentiment of fear!" he exclaimed. "Rather let me determine
      how to act."  
  He proceeded to examine the room in which he appeared to be a prisoner. The numerous beds
      seemed to indicate that he really was in a species of barrack, or lodging-house of some kind;
      and this circumstance, coupled with the fact that the porter who had admitted him was
      evidently a member of the Egyptian or Bohemian race, reassured him—for he felt convinced that
      he was actually in the abode of gipsies.  
  So far the stranger, who had been the means of his visit to that strange tenement, had not
      deceived him.  
  But how was he to satisfy himself in regard to the Resurrection Man? He tried the door—it
      was indeed fastened; he examined the windows—they were not barred, but were of a dangerous
      height from the back-yard on which they looked.  
  Markham paced the room uncertain how to act.  
  Suddenly his reverie was interrupted by the tread of many steps upon the stairs; and then a
      species of subdued bustle took place throughout the house.  
  The whispering of voices—the removal of heavy objects overhead—the running of persons hither
      and thither—and the opening and shutting of doors, announced that some extraordinary movement
      was taking place.  
  Richard listened with breathless anxiety.  
  At length the sounds of several heavy steps, in the landing outside his door, met his ears;
      and this noise was at short intervals varied by deep groans.  
  The groans seemed to accompany the tread of the heavy steps just mentioned.  
  These steps and those expressions of human suffering grew fainter and fainter, as they
      descended the stairs, until at length they were no longer audible.  
  Nevertheless Markham kept his ear fixed to the key-hole of his chamber-door.  
  Silence now once more reigned throughout the house; but in a few minutes the noise and
      bustle seemed to have been transferred to the yard.  
  Richard hurried to the window; but the moon had gone down and the darkness without was
      intense.  
  He concealed the light in a corner of the room, and then gently raised one of the
      windows.  
  But he could distinguish nothing with his eyes; and the sounds that met his ears were those
      of footsteps bustling to and fro. At length these ceased; a door was closed at the end of the
      yard; and almost immediately afterwards Richard heard, in the same direction, the rumbling
      noise of a vehicle moving heavily away.  
  When that din had ceased, the most profound tranquillity prevailed not only in the home but
      also in its neighbourhood.  
  That silence was interrupted only for a few moments by the sonorous bell of St. Giles's
      Church, proclaiming the hour of three.  
  "Time wears on," said Markham impatiently; "and no opportunity of satisfying myself upon the
      one point seems to present itself. To attempt to seek repose is impossible; to pass the dull
      hours in suspense like this is intolerable!"  
  Then he seated himself on one of the beds, and considered what course he should pursue.  
  Slowly—slowly passed the time; and though he revolved in his mind many plans, he could fix
      upon none.  
  At length the clock struck four.  
  "The hour for departure will come, and I shall leave this house as full of doubt and
      uncertainty as when I entered it!" he ejaculated, starting up.  
  His eye chanced to fall upon a long nail in the wall opposite to the bed from which he had
      just risen.  
  A scheme which had already suggested itself to his mind, now assumed a feasible aspect:—he
      knew that the door was only locked, and not bolted; and that nail seemed to promise the means
      of egress.  
  He, however, first examined the candle which had been left him, and which still burned in
      the corner where he had concealed it:—to his joy he found that there was an inch
      remaining.  
  "With the assurance of light for another half hour, and good courage," he said to himself,
      "I may yet accomplish my purpose."  
  Having extracted the nail from the wall, he proceeded to pick the lock of the room-door—an
      operation which he successfully achieved in a few minutes.  
  Without a moment's hesitation, he issued from the room, bearing the candle in his hand.  
  As he crossed the landing towards the staircase, which he resolved to ascend, his foot came
      in contact with some object.  
  He picked it up: it was an old greasy pocket-book, tied loosely round with a coarse string,
      and as Markham raised it, a letter dropped out.  
  Richard was in the act of replacing the document in the pocket-book, which he
      intended to leave upon the stairs, so as to attract the notice of the inmates of the house,
      when the address on the outside of the letter caught his eyes.  
  The candle nearly fell from his hand, so great was the astonishment which immediately seized
      upon him.  
  That address consisted simply of the words "  Anthony Tidkins  !"—but the
      handwriting—Oh! there was no possibility of mistaking   that  ! Markham knew it so well;
      and though years had elapsed since he had last seen it, still it was familiar to him as his
      own—the more so, as it remained unchanged in style;—for it was the writing of his brother
      Eugene!  
  With a hasty but trembling hand he opened the letter, the wafer of which had already been
      broken;—he did not hesitate to read the contents;—judging by his own frank and generous heart,
      he conceived that such a licence was permitted between brothers. Moreover, he experienced a
      profound and painful anxiety to ascertain what link could connect his brother with the
      terrible individual to whom the letter was addressed.  
  But all that the letter contained was this:—  
  "Come to me to-night without fail, between eleven and twelve. Knock in the usual
      manner."  
  Richard examined the handwriting with the most minute attention; and the longer he
      scrutinized it, the more he became confirmed in his belief that it was Eugene's.  
  But Eugene a patron or colleague of the greatest miscreant that had ever disgraced human
      nature! Was such a thing possible?  
  The letter bore no date—no signature—and was addressed from no place. It had no post-mark
      upon it, and had, therefore, evidently been delivered by a private hand.  
  "Oh!" thought Richard within himself, "if my unhappy brother have really been the victim,
      the associate, or the employer of that incarnate demon, may God grant that the wretch is
      indeed no more—for the sake of Eugene!"  
  And then his curiosity to ascertain the truth relative to the alleged assassination of
      Tidkins, became more poignant.  
  "It must be so!" reasoned Markham within himself; "that stranger has not deceived me:—the
      presence of this pocket-book here is an undeniable trace of the miscreant. Oh, how much it now
      behoves me to convince myself that he is indeed removed from the theatre of his crimes!"  
  Subduing as much as possible the painful emotions which that letter had suddenly excited
      within him, Markham secured the pocket-book about his person; for now that accident had
      revealed to him to whom it belonged, he did not consider himself called upon to part with an
      object which, in case the statement of Tidkins' death should prove untrue, might contain some
      paper calculated to afford a clue to his haunts or proceedings.  
  Scarcely decided in what manner to pursue his investigation in that house, and trusting more
      to accident than to any settled plan to aid him in testing the truth of the self-accused
      stranger's statement relative to Tidkins,—Markham stole softly up the staircase.  
  Arrived on the first landing to which it led, he listened attentively at the various doors
      which opened from it.  
  All was silent as death within the rooms to which those doors belonged.  
  Not even the sound of human respiration met his ears. Could it be possible that the house
      was deserted? Perhaps the bustle which he had heard ere now was caused by the departure of its
      occupants?  
  As this idea grew upon him, he was emboldened to try the latch of one of the doors at which
      he had already listened. It yielded to his hand; he pushed the door open with great caution,
      and entered the chamber.  
  Not a human soul was there.  
  He visited the other rooms upon that landing, the doors of which were all unlocked; and they
      were alike untenanted.  
  There was another storey above; and thither he proceeded.  
  The first three rooms which he entered were empty, like the preceding ones; but in the
      fourth there were three men. They were, however, fast asleep in their beds; and Richard's
      visit was so noiseless that they were not in the least disturbed.  
  Hastily retreating, and closing the door carefully behind him, Markham descended to the
      landing on which his own room opened, and where he had found the pocket-book.  
  On that floor were four apartments, as on each of the upper flats, in addition to the
      porter's lodge, which, it will be remembered, was precisely over the lobby below.  
  To avoid elaborate detail, we may state that Markham found the doors of the other three
      rooms (besides his own) on the first floor unlocked, and the chambers themselves
      untenanted.  
  He was about to leave the last room, when the appearance of one of the beds attracted his
      attention; and on a closer examination, he perceived that it was saturated with blood.
      Moreover, on a chair close by, there were pieces of linen rag, on which large stains of gore
      were scarcely dry, together with lint and bandages—unquestionable proofs that a wound had very
      recently been dressed in that apartment.  
  "No—that self-accuser has not deceived me!" thought Markham, as he contemplated these
      objects. "All circumstances combine to bear evidence to the truth of his assertion! Doubtless
      the gipsies have departed, carrying away the corpse with them!"  
  He stood gazing on the blood-dyed bed at his feet musing in this manner; and then he thought
      how fearful was the fate of the miscreant, the evidences of whose death he believed to be
      beneath his eyes, cut off in the midst of his crimes without a moment's preparation or
      repentance!  
  But suddenly he asked himself—"Am I certain that he is no more? That lint to stanch the
      blood—those bandages to bind the wound,—do they not rather bear testimony to a blow which was
      not fatal, but left life behind it? And yet, for what purpose could the body be removed—save
      for secret interment? Oh! if that man be yet alive—and if Eugene be indeed his accomplice or
      his patron——"  
  And Markham experienced emotions of the most intense anguish! He loved his brother with the
      most ardent affection; and the idea that the individual so loved could be a criminal, or the
      friend of criminals, was harrowing to his soul.  
  upright and almost severe principles asserting their empire in his mind,—"after
      all, ought I not to rejoice, if this man be indeed still alive, that he has survived the
      assassin's blow—that he is allowed leisure for repentance! My Maker, who can read all hearts,
      knows that I am not selfish; and yet it is a principle of our frail human nature to rejoice at
      the fall of a deadly enemy! Oh! when I think of all the wrongs and injuries I have experienced
      at the hands of that man,—exposures—persecutions—attempts upon my life,—I cannot pray that he
      may live to be the scourge of others—and perhaps of my brother—as he has been of me!"  
  Unwilling to contend longer with the varied emotions which agitated his breast, Markham
      hurried from the room.  
  The lower part of the house yet remained to be explored:—perhaps the body—if the
      Resurrection Man were indeed dead—had been removed to a room on the ground floor?  
  Determined to leave no stone unturned to satisfy his doubts, Markham cautiously descended
      the stairs, and visited the refectory-rooms, one after the other.  
  They were all empty.  
  His candle was now waxing dim; but he saw that his search was nearly over. A flight of
      steps, apparently leading to offices in the basement of the building, alone remained for him
      to visit.  
  To that part of the house he descended, and found himself in a small place which had the
      appearance of a scullery.  
  On one side was a massive door, secured with huge bolts, and evidently leading into a vault
      or cellar. But scarcely had Markham time to cast one glance around him in the subterranean,
      when the candle flickered and expired.  
  At the same moment a hollow groan echoed through the basement.  
  Richard started: he was in total darkness—and a momentary tremor came over him.  
  The groan was repeated.  
  His fears vanished; and he immediately concluded that the Resurrection Man, wounded and
      suffering, must be somewhere near.  
  At that idea, all sentiments of aversion, hatred, and abhorrence,—all reminiscence of injury
      and wrong, fled from the mind of that generous-hearted young man: he thought only that a
      fellow-creature was in anguish and in pain—perhaps neglected, and left to die without a soul
      to administer consolation!  
  Reckless of the danger which he might incur by alarming the inmates of the house, he
      determined upon rousing the porter in order to obtain a light.  
  He turned from the scullery, and was rushing up the stone steps in pursuance of his humane
      intention, when he suddenly came in violent contact with a person who was descending the same
      stairs.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLI.   THE SUBTERRANEAN.  
  The violence of the concussion threw Richard backwards; and in a moment he felt the rough
      hand of a man grasp him by the throat.  
  "Who is it?" was the demand simultaneously put to him.  
  "I will answer you when we are on equal terms," replied Markham; and, hurling the man away
      from him, he sprang upon his feet. "Now—stand off," he cried; "for I am not to be injured with
      impunity."  
  "I don't want to injure you," said the man. "But who are you? I know by your voice that
      you're not one of us."  
  "You then are an inmate of this house?" observed Markham, fencing with the other's
      question.  
  At that instant another hollow groan echoed through the subterranean.  
  "She lives!" cried the man; and in another moment Markham heard him drawing back the bolts
      of the massive door which he had observed in the scullery.  
  Richard groped his way towards him, and said, "  She lives?   whom do you allude to?
      Surely there cannot be a female imprisoned——"  
  "Be silent, in the name of heaven!" interrupted the man, in a whisper. "The life of an
      unhappy woman depends upon your secrecy—whoever you may be."  
  "Then would I rather aid than harm you and her, both," answered Markham.  
  Another groan was heard; and Richard could now distinguish the direction from which it
      came.  
  But still the massive door remained unopened.  
  "This bolt,—this bolt!" muttered the man in a tone expressive of commingled rage and
      despair. "Oh! for a light!"  
  "Can you not procure one?" demanded Richard.  
  "Stay," said the man—"a good thought! There should be candles somewhere here—and matches. By
      Jove! here is a candle—and, on this shelf—yes—here are matches also!"  
  The man struck a light.  
  By a natural impulse he and Markham immediately cast scrutinising glances at each other.  
  "Ah! I thought so by your voice—you are a gentleman," said the man: "then you will not
      betray me?"  
  "Betray you!" repeated Markham, surprised at this observation.  
  "I will tell you what I mean presently: there is no time to be lost! Hark—another groan: she
      is dying!"  
  The man, who was tall and good-looking, and evidently not a scion of the Bohemian race—gave
      Markham the candle, and proceeded to open the massive door, the presence of the light enabling
      him to remove the fastenings with ease.  
  He then beckoned Richard to follow him into the cellar, where he instantly set to work to
      draw the bolts of a second door.  
  This task was speedily accomplished; and as the door grated upon its hinges, another
      heart-wrung moan emanated from the interior of the second vault.  
  The man rushed in; Markham followed with the light, and beheld a woman stretched almost
      lifeless upon the mattress.  
  The groans had all along emanated from her lips:—then where was the Resurrection Man?  
  "Margaret—cheer up—it's me—it's Skilligalee—I'm come to save you," said the protector of the
      Rattlesnake as he bent over her.  
  "How long has she been immured here?" inquired Markham.  
  "and so it must be fright that has half killed her. Pray get some water,
      sir—there's plenty in the scullery."  
  Markham hastened to comply with this request; and Skilligalee bathed the woman's face with
      the refreshing element.  
  She opened her eyes, and a smile came over her faded countenance as she caught sight of the
      friendly face that greeted her fearful glance.  
  "How long have I been here?" asked the Rattlesnake in a faint tone, while her whole frame
      was convulsed with terror as recent events rushed to her mind.  
  "Not many hours, Meg," answered Skilligalee.  
  "And you will not leave me here any longer?" she said. "Oh! do not let me die in this
      horrible place!"  
  "I am come to save you," returned Skilligalee. "Are you able to get up and walk?"  
  "Yes—for the sake of freedom," cried the Rattlesnake, rising from the mattress. "But who is
      that?" she added, as her eyes now fell upon Markham for the first time.  
  "That's exactly what I don't know myself," said Skilligalee. "The gentleman has, however,
      behaved himself as such; and that's enough for us. Hark! there's the clock on the staircase
      striking five? We haven't much time to lose: come on."  
  Markham led the way with the light: Skilligalee followed, supporting the Rattlesnake, who
      was weak and exhausted with the effects of extreme terror.  
  "Which way shall we go?" she inquired, as they paused for a moment in the scullery, to
      listen if all were quiet.  
  "By the back gate," answered Skilligalee. "I have secured the key. The porter keeps the keys
      of the front door."  
  "And what has become of   him  —that dreadful man who was the cause of all this
      misery?" asked the Rattlesnake. "Was he killed by the blow that the Traveller dealt him with
      his long dagger?"  
  These words struck a chord which vibrated to Markham's heart.  
  "Was any one wounded in this house during the night?" he demanded hastily.  
  Skilligalee hesitated: he knew not who Markham was, nor what might be the consequences of a
      reply consistent with the truth.  
  "Answer me, I conjure you," continued Richard, perceiving this unwillingness to satisfy his
      curiosity. "I have every reason to believe that a person whose name is Anthony Tidkins——"  
  "Oh! yes—yes," murmured the Rattlesnake, with a convulsive shudder.  
  "Then I have not been deceived!" cried Markham. "That individual, who is better known as the
      Resurrection Man, was dangerously wounded—if not killed—in this house a few hours since.
      "You," he continued, addressing himself to Skilligalee, "are evidently acquainted with the
      particulars of the occurrence: as I have assisted you to liberate this woman who seems dear to
      you, reward me by telling me all you know of that event."  
  "First tell me who you are," said Skilligalee. "And be quick—I have no time for
      conversation."  
  "Suffice it for you to know that I am one whom the Resurrection Man has cruelly injured.
      Twice has he attempted my life: once at his den in Bethnal Green, and again on the banks of
      the canal at Twig Folly——"  
  "Then you, sir, are Mr. Markham?" interrupted be Rattlesnake. "Oh! I know how you have been
      treated by that fearful man; and there is no necessity to conceal the truth from you! Yes—sir,
      it is true that the wretch who has persecuted you was stabbed in this house; and—if I did not
      believe that the wound was mortal——"  
  Here the Rattlesnake stopped, and leant heavily upon Skilligalee for support—so profoundly
      was she terrified at the mere possibility of Anthony Tidkins being still in existence.  
  Her companion perceived her emotion, and fathoming its cause, hastened to exclaim, "But he
      is no more! You need dread him no longer."  
  "Are you sure? are you well convinced of this?" demanded Markham.  
  "I saw him breathe his last," was the answer.  
  "Where? Not in this house?" cried Richard.  
  "No," returned Skilligalee. "Between two and three this morning the King, his family, and
      all the Zingarees, except those who stay to take care of this establishment, took their
      departure; and I was compelled to go along with them. In consequence of some communication
      between the person you call the Resurrection Man and Aischa, the Queen of the Zingarees, after
      he was badly wounded by the Traveller——"  
  "How do you call the individual who attacked him?" demanded Richard.  
  "The Traveller," answered the Skilligalee. "But, it appears, that he had another
      name—Crankey Jem: at least, he said so after he had stabbed the man."  
  "I should know that name," said Richard, musing. "Oh! I remember! Proceed."  
  "Well—in consequence of something that the Resurrection Man told Aischa, when she was
      attending to his wound, it was determined to take him along with us; and four of our men
      carried him down to the van which was waiting at the back gate. He groaned very much while he
      was being removed."  
  "I heard him," said Richard, instantaneously recalling to mind the groans which had met his
      ears when he was listening at his chamber door to the bustle of the gipsies' departure.  
  "You heard him?" repeated Skilligalee.  
  "Yes—I was in the house at the time. Proceed."  
  "We conveyed him down to the van, where we laid him on a mattress, and he seemed to fall
      asleep. Then we all divided into twos and threes, and got safe out of London, into a field
      near the Pentonville Penitentiary. But when the van, with Aischa, Eva, and Morcar,—those are
      some of our people, sir,—came to the place of appointment, we found," added Skilligalee, his
      voice assuming a peculiar tone, "that the Resurrection Man was dead."  
  "God be thanked!" ejaculated the Rattlesnake, with a fervour which made Markham's blood run
      cold.  
  "And now that I have told you all I know, sir," said Skilligalee, "you will have no
      objection if me and my companion here go about our business; for it is dangerous to both our
      interests to remain here any longer."  
  excess of terror that seemed ready to prostrate all her energies.  
  "Yes—let us leave this fearful den," said Markham: "to me it appears replete with horrors of
      all kinds."  
  Skilligalee now took the candle and led the way, still supporting Margaret Flathers on his
      arm.  
  They all three effected their egress from the palace without any obstacle.  
  When they were safe in the alley with which the back gate communicated, Markham said to
      Skilligalee, "From what I can understand, you have fled from the gipsies in order to return
      and liberate your companion from the dungeon where we found her."  
  "That is precisely what I did," answered Skilligalee. "I gave them the slip when they had
      set up their tents in the field near the Penitentiary."  
  "It is probable that you are not too well provided with pecuniary resources," said Richard:
      "the contents of my purse are at your service."  
  "Thank you kindly, sir—very kindly," returned Skilligalee. "I am not in want of such
      assistance."  
  Markham vainly pressed his offer: it was declined with many expressions of gratitude. The
      truth was that Skilligalee had the greater portion of his share of Margaret's gold still
      remaining; and there was something so generous and so noble in the manner of Richard Markham,
      that he could not find it in his heart to impose upon him by taking a sum of which he did not
      stand in immediate need.  
  "At all events, let me advise you to avoid such companions as those with whom you appear to
      have been allied," observed Richard, "and who are cruel enough to immure a female in a
      subterranean dungeon."  
  "I shall not neglect your advice, sir," returned Skilligalee; "and may God bless you for
      it."  
  "And you," continued Richard, addressing himself to Margaret Flathers, "second your
      companion in his good intentions. I know not what deed on your part could have led to your
      incarceration in that cell—neither do I seek to know;—but to you I would give similar
      advice—avoid those whose ways are criminal, and whose vengeance is as terrific as it is
      lawless. Farewell."  
  "May God bless you, sir, for your good counsel!" said Margaret Flathers, weeping.  
  She had not merely repeated, with parrot-like callousness, the words uttered by her
      companion: that benediction emanated with fervid sincerity from a heart deeply penetrated by
      anxiety to renew a long-forgotten acquaintance with rectitude.  
  "Farewell, sir," said Skilligalee.  
  He and the Rattlesnake then struck into one of the streets with which the alley at the back
      of the gipsies' palace communicated.  
  Richard took another direction on his way homewards.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLII.   GIBBET.  
  A fortnight had passed since the incidents just related.  
  It was a Monday morning.  
  The clock of St. Giles's had just struck six, when the faint, flickering gleam of a candle
      struggled through the uppermost windows of the hangman's house.  
  The few persons who were passing along at that hour, and on that dark winter's morning,
      shuddered as they caught a glimpse of the sickly glare through the obscurity and the mist—for
      they thought within themselves, "The executioner is up early on account of the man that's to
      be hanged at eight o'clock."  
  And such was indeed the case.  
  Smithers rose shortly before six; and, having lighted the solitary candle that stood upon
      the mantel, proceeded to the floor below to call his son.  
  "Gibbet, you lazy hound!" he cried, thundering with his fist at the door of the hump-back's
      room; "get up."  
  "I'm getting up, father," replied the lad, from the interior of the chamber.  
  "Well, make haste about it," said the executioner in a savage tone.  
  He then returned to the loft.  
  There was something horribly fantastic in the appearance of that place. The dim and sickly
      light of the candle did but little more than redeem from complete obscurity the various
      strange objects which we have already described. But as the penetrating eye of the executioner
      plunged into the visible darkness of the loft, and beheld the ominous figure balancing beneath
      the beam, while its mask of a livid white hue wore a ghastly appearance in contrast with the
      black body and limbs which it surmounted,—no sentiment of horror nor of alarm agitated his
      heart.  
  The avocations of the man had brutalized him, and blunted every humane feeling which he had
      once possessed.  
  He walked up and down the room impatiently for several minutes, until the door opened and
      his son entered.  
  The hideous countenance of the lad was ghastly pale, and distorted with horror. His eyes
      glared fearfully, as if terrific apparitions flitted before them.  
  "Gibbet," said his father, "you shall try your hand this morning on a living being instead
      of a puppet."  
  "This morning!" repeated the lad, his teeth chattering, and his knees knocking together.  
  "To be sure. Didn't I tell you so last night?" cried the executioner. "Why, you hump-backed
      scoundrel, you—you ought to have prayed that no reprieve might be sent for the chap that's to
      be tucked up this morning, instead of working yourself up to this state of cowardly
      nervousness. But I'll take it out of you, I will."  
  With these words, Smithers seized his leathern thong, and was advancing towards the
      hump-back, when the wretched lad threw himself on his knees, clasped his hands together, and
      cried, "No,—don't, father—don't! I can't bear that lash! You don't know how it hurts.—I'll do
      all you tell me."  
  "Well, that's speaking proper—that is," said the executioner, dropping the already uplifted
      thong.  
  knowing hand as me to tie their last cravat for them. I'd bet a pound that the man
      who's to be turned off presently, isn't half as miserable as people think—'cos why, he's well
      aware that I shan't put him to no pain."  
  "I know you've got a great name in your business, father——"  
  "We'll call it   profession   in future, Gibbet; it's more genteel. And, after all,
      it's as good as a barrister's; for the barrister gets the man hanged—and I hang him. That's
      all the difference."  
  "I know it's very respectable, father," resumed the lad, submissively; "but—still—I——"  
  "Still what?" cried Smithers, savagely, and taking up the thong again.  
  "Nothing—nothing, father," faltered Gibbet.  
  "So much the better. Now come to the model, and take and pinion the figure—'cos that's what
      I mean you to do presently down at Newgate. Begin by degrees, as the saying is; you shall
      pinion this man to day; you shall let the drop fall for the next—and you shall put the halter
      on the one that comes arter him, whoever he may be."  
  "Must I—pin—in—ion the man this morning, father?" inquired the lad, the workings of whose
      countenance were now absolutely terrific.  
  "Must you? Of course you must," answered Smithers. "Why, what the devil are you snivelling
      at now? I'd wager a crown to a brass farthin' that there's many a young nobleman who'd give
      fifty pounds to be able to do it. Look how they hire the winders opposite Newgate! Lord bless
      their souls, it does me good to think that the aristocracy and gentry patronises hanging as
      well as the other fine arts. What would become of the executioners if they didn't? Why—the
      legislature would abolish capital punishment at once."  
  Gibbet clasped his hands together, and raised his eyes in an imploring manner, as much as to
      say, "Oh! how I wish they would!"  
  Fortunately for him, his father did not perceive this expression of emotion, for the
      executioner had approached the candle to the model-gallows, and was now busily occupied in
      arranging the figure for his son's practice.  
  "I'll tell you who are the patrons of my business—profession, I mean," continued the
      executioner; "and if you had a grain of feeling for your father, you'd go down on your knees
      night and morning and pray for them. The old Tories and the Clergy are my friends; and, thank
      God! I'm a stanch Tory, too. I hate changes. What have changes done? Why swept away the good
      old laws that used to hang a man for stealing anything above forty shillings. Ah! George the
      Third was the best king we ever had! He used to tuck 'em up—three, four, five, six—aye, seven
      at once! Folks may well talk of the good old times—when an executioner could make his twenty
      or thirty guineas of a morning! I'd sooner take two guineas for each man under such an
      excellent system, than have the ten pounds as I do now."  
  While Smithers was thus talking, he had lowered the figure until it stood upon the drop. He
      then took off the halter; but the puppet still retained its upright position, because it was
      well stiffened and had heavy plates of lead fastened to the soles of its feet.  
  "Now what a cry the rascally radical Sunday papers make against the people they call the
         saints  ," continued Smithers, as he unfastened the cord which pinioned the arms of
      the puppet; "and yet those very   saints   are the ones that are most in favour of
      punishment of death. For my part, I adore the   saints  —I do. When Fitzmorris Shelley
      brought forward his measure to do away with capital penalty, didn't Dinglis and Cherrytree and
      all those pious men make a stand against him? And don't they know what's right and proper? Of
      course they do! Ah! I never read so much of House of Commons' business before, as I did
      then:—but I was in a precious fright, it's true. I thought of calling a public meeting of all
      the executioners in the kingdom to petition Parliament against the measure; but I didn't do
      it—because the House of Commons might have thought that we was interested."  
  Smithers paused for a moment, and contemplated the puppet and the model-gallows with great
      admiration. He had fashioned the one and built the latter himself; and he was not a little
      proud of his handiwork.  
  "Now, come, Gibbet," he at length exclaimed; "it's all ready. Do you hear me, you infernal
      hump-back?"  
  "And if I am a hump-back, father," returned the lad, bursting into tears, "you know——"  
  "What?" cried the executioner his countenance assuming an expression truly ferocious.  
  "You know that it isn't my fault," added the unfortunate youth, shrinking from the glance of
      his savage parent.  
  "None of this nonsense, Gibbet," said the man, a little softened by the reminiscence that he
      himself had made his son the object of the very reproach levelled against his personal
      deformity. "Come and try your hand at this work for a few minutes before breakfast; and then
      we'll go down yonder together."  
  Gibbet approached the model-gallows; but his countenance still denoted the most
      profoundly-rooted disgust and abhorrence.  
  "Let's suppose that the culprit is as yet in his own cell, Gibbet," continued the
      executioner. "Well, it's time to pinion him, we'll say; there's the sheriffs standing
      there—and here's the chaplain. Now, you go for'ard and begin."  
  Gibbet took the whip-cord which his father handed to him.  
  "That's right. Now you won't bounce up to the poor devil just like a wild elephant: remember
      that he's more or less in an interesting situation—as the ladies say. You'll rather glide
      behind him, and insinuate the cord between his arms, whispering at the same time, '  Beg
       pardon  .' Mind and don't forget that; because we're under an obligation to him to some
      extent, as he's the means of putting money in our pocket, and we get the reversion of his
      clothes."  
  Here Gibbet cast a hasty but terrified glance towards his father's attire.  
  "Ah! I know what you're looking at, youngster," said Smithers, with a coarse laugh; "you
      want to see if I've got on my usual toggery? To be sure I have. I wear it as a compliment to
      the gentleman that we're to operate on this morning. This coat was the one that Pegsworth cut
      his last fling in: this waistcoat was Greenacre's; and these breeches was William Lees's. But
      go on—we mustn't waste time in this way."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Gibbet approached the puppet, and endeavoured to manipulate the string as his father
      instructed him; but his hand trembled so convulsively that he could not even pass it between
      the arms of the figure.  
  While he was still fumbling with the cord, and vainly endeavouring to master his emotions,
      the leathern thong descended with tremendous violence upon his back.  
  An appalling cry burst from the poor lad; but the executioner only showered down curses on
      his head.  
  At length Gibbet contrived, through fear of another blow, to pinion the figure in a manner
      satisfactory to his brutal parent.  
  "There!" exclaimed Smithers; "I shall make something of you at last. What virtue there must
      be in an old bit of leather: it seems to put the right spirit into   you  , at all
      events. Well, that's all you shall do this morning down at Newgate; and mind and do it as if
      the thong was hanging over your head—or it will be all the worse for you when we get home. Try
      and keep up the credit of your father's name, and show the Sheriffs and the Chaplain how you
      can truss their pigeon for them. They always take great notice—they do. Last time there was an
      execution, the Chaplain says to me, says he, '  Smithers, I don't think you had your hand
       nicely in this morning?  '—'  Don't you, sir?  ' says I.—'  No  ,' says he;
       '  I've seen you do it more genteel than that.  '—'  Well, sir  ,' says I,
       '  I'll do my best to please you next time  .'—'  Ah! do, there's a good fellow,
       Smithers  ,' says the Chaplain; and off he goes to breakfast with the Sheriffs and
      governor, a-smacking his lips at the idea of the cold fowl and ham that he meant to pitch
      into. But I only mention that anecdote, to show you how close the authorities take
      notice—that's all. So mind and do your best, boy."  
  "Yes, father," returned Gibbet.  
  that he   is   here," proceeded Smithers, alluding to the figure, and rather
      musing aloud than addressing himself to his son. "Now all we've got to do is to imagine that
      the bell's a-ringing:—there stands the parson, reading the funeral service. Here I am. I take
      the halter that's already tied nicely round the poor devil's neck—I fix the loop on this hook
      that hangs down from the beam of the gibbet—then I leave the scaffold—I go underneath—I pull
      the bolt—and down he falls so!"  
  "O God!" cried Gibbet, literally writhing with mental agony, as the drop fell with a
      crashing sound, and the jerking noise of the halter met his ear a moment afterwards.  
  "Now, then, coward!" exclaimed the executioner; and again the leathern thong elicited
      horrible screams from the hump-back.  
  The lad was still crying, and his father was in the midst of sundry fearful anathemas,
      levelled against what he called his son's cowardice, when a knock was heard at the door of the
      loft.  
  "Come in!" shouted the executioner.  
  The invitation was obeyed; and an elderly man, dressed in a shabby suit of black, entered
      the room with an affected solemnity of gait.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLIII.   MORBID FEELINGS.—KATHERINE.  
  "Holloa, Banks!" exclaimed the executioner. "Got scent of the morning's work—eh, old
      feller?"  
  "Alas! my dear Mr. Smithers," returned the undertaker, shaking his head in a lachrymose
      manner, "if men will perpetrate such enormities, they must expect to go to their last home by
      means of a dance upon nothing."  
  And, according to a custom which years had rendered a part of Mr. Banks's nature, he wiped
      his eyes with a dingy white pocket-handkerchief.  
  "There he is again, the old fool!" ejaculated Smithers, with a coarse guffaw; "always
      a-whimpering! Why, you don't mean to say, Banks, that you care two straws about the feller
      that's going to be tucked up this morning?"  
  "Ah! Smithers, you don't know my heart: I weeps for frail human natur', and not only for the
      unhappy being that's so soon to be a blessed defunct carkiss. But, Smithers—my boy——"  
  "Well?" cried the executioner.  
  "How much is it to be this time for the rope?" asked Mr. Banks, in a tremulous tone and with
      another solemn shake of the head.  
  "Five shillings—not a mag under," was the prompt reply.  
  "That's too much, Mr. Smithers—too much," observed the undertaker of Globe Lane. "The last
      one I bought I lost by: times is changed, Mr. Smithers—sadly changed."  
  "Ain't the   morbid feelings  , as the press calls 'em, as powerful as ever?" demanded
      the executioner savagely.  
  "The morbid feelings, thank God, is right as a trivet," answered Banks; "but it's the blunt
      that falls off, Smithers—the blunt! And what's the use of the morbid feelings if there's no
      blunt to gratify 'em?"  
  "Do you mean to tell me, Mr. Banks," cried the executioner, "that you can't get as ready a
      sale for the halters as you used to do?"  
  "I'm afraid that such is the actiwal case, my dear friend," responded Mr. Banks, turning up
      his eyes in a melancholy manner. "The last blessed wictim that you operated on, Mr. Smithers,
      you remember, I gived you five shillings for the rope; and I will say, in justice to him as
      spun it and them as bought it, that a nicer, stronger, or compacter bit of cord never
      supported carkiss to cross-beam. But wain was it that I coiled it neat up in my winder;—wain
      was it that I wrote on a half sheet of foolscap, '  This is the halter that hung poor
       William Lees  ;'—the morbid feelings was strong, 'cos the crowd collected opposite my
      house; but the filthy lucre, Smithers, was wanting. Well—there the damned—I beg its pardon—the
      blessed cord stayed for a matter of three weeks; and I do believe it never would have gone at
      all, if some swell that was passing quite promiscuously one day didn't take a fancy to
      it——"  
  "Well, and what did he give you?" demanded the executioner impatiently.  
  "Only twelve shillings, as true as I'm a woful sinner that hopes to be saved!" answered the
      undertaker.  
  "Twelve shillings—eh? And how much would you have had for the rope?"  
  "When the blunt doesn't fall short of the morbid feelings, I calkilates upon a guinea,"
      answered Mr. Banks.  
  "Why, you old rogue," shouted the executioner, "you know that you sold William Lees's rope a
      dozen times over. The moment the real one was disposed of, you shoved a counterfeit into your
      winder; and that went off so well, that you kept on till you'd sold a dozen."  
  "No, Smithers—never no such luck as that since Greenacre's business," said the undertaker,
      with a solemn shake of his head; "and then I believe I really did sell nineteen ropes in less
      than a week."  
  "I only wonder people is such fools as to be gulled so," observed Smithers.  
  "What can they say, when they see your certifikit that the rope's the true one?" demanded
      Banks. "There was one old gen'leman that dealt with me for a many—many years; and he bought
      the rope of every blessed defunct that had danced on nothing at Newgate for upwards of twenty
      year! I quite entered into his feeling, I did—I admired that man; and so I always sold him the
      real ropes. But time's passing, while I'm chattering here. Come, my dear Smithers—shall we say
      three shillings for the rope and certifikit this morning?"  
  "Not a mag less than five," was the dogged answer.  
  "Four, my dear friend Smithers?" said the undertaker, with a whining, coaxing tone and
      manner.  
  "No—five, I tell you."  
  "Well—five then," said Banks. "I'll be there at a few minits 'afore nine: I s'pose you'll
      cut the carkiss down at the usual hour?"  
  "Yes—yes," answered Smithers. "I'm always punctiwal with the dead as well as the
      living."  
  The undertaker muttered something about "blessed defuncts," smoothed down the limp ends of
      his dirty cravat, and slowly withdrew, shaking his head more solemnly than ever.  
  Smithers, turning with an air of triumph towards his son: "look at the
      perk-visits—look at the priweleges! And yet you go snivelling about like a young gal, 'cos I
      want to make you fit to succeed me in my honourable profession."  
  "O father!" cried the lad, unable to restrain his feelings any longer: "instead of being
      respected, we are abhorred—instead of being honoured, our very touch is contamination! You
      yourself know, dear father, that you scarcely or never go abroad; if you enter the
      public-house tap-room, even in a neighbourhood so low as this, the people get up and walk away
      on different excuses. When I step out for an errand, the boys in the streets point at me; and
      those who are well-behaved, pass me with stealthy looks of horror and dread. Even that canting
      hypocrite who has just left us—even   he   never crosses your threshold except when his
      interest is concerned;—and yet he, they say, is connected with body-snatchers, and does not
      bear an over-excellent character in his neighbourhood. Yet such a sneaking old wretch as that
      approaches our door with loathing—Oh! I know that he does! You see, father—dear father, that
      it is a horrible employment; then pray don't make me embrace it—Oh! don't—pray don't,
      father—dear father: say you won't—and I'll do any thing else you tell me! I'll pick up rags
      and bones from the gutters—I'll sweep chimnies—I'll break stones from dawn to darkness;—but do
      not—do not make me an executioner!"  
  Smithers was so astounded at this appeal that he had allowed it to proceed without
      interruption. He was accustomed to be addressed on the same subject, but never to such a
      length, nor with such arguments; so that the manner and matter of that prayer produced a
      strange impression on the man who constantly sought, by means of rude sophistries, to veil
      from himself and his family the true estimation in which his calling was held.  
  Gibbet, mistaking his father's astonishment for a more favourable impression, threw himself
      at his feet, clasped his hands, and exclaimed, "Oh! do not turn a deaf ear to my prayer! And
      think not, dear father, that I confound   you   with that pursuit which I abhor;—think
      not that I see other in you than my parent—a parent whom——"  
  "Whom you shall obey!" cried the executioner, now recovering the use of his tongue: "or, by
      God!" he added, pointing with terrible ferocity towards the model-gallows, "I'll serve you as
      I did that puppet just now—and as I shall do the man down in the Old Bailey presently."  
  Gibbet rose—disappointed, dispirited, and with a heart agitated by the most painful
      emotions.  
  But why had not Smithers recourse to the leathern weapon as usual? why had he spared the
      poor hump-back on this occasion?  
  Gibbet himself marvelled that such forbearance should have been shown towards him, since he
      now comprehended but too well that his father was inexorable in his determination with regard
      to him.  
  The truth was that Smithers was so far struck by his son's appeal as to deem it of more
      serious import than any previously manifested aversion to his horrible calling; and he
      accordingly met it with a menace which he deemed to be more efficacious than the old
      discipline of the thong.  
  "Now, mind me," said the executioner, after a few moments' pause, "you needn't try any more
      of these snivelling antics: they won't succeed with me, I tell you before-hand. If you don't
      do as I order you, I'll hang you up to that beam as soon as yonder mouse in the noose on the
      mantel. So let one word be enough. Hark! there's seven o'clock: we've only just time to get a
      mouthful before we must be off."  
  Smithers proceeded down stairs, followed by Gibbet.  
  They entered a little parlour, where Katherine was preparing breakfast.  
  It being still dark, a candle stood on the table; and its light was reflected in the
      polished metal tea-pot, milk-jug, and sugar-basin. The table napkin was of dazzling whiteness:
      the knives and forks were bright as steel could be;—in a word, an air of exquisite neatness
      and cleanliness pervaded the board on which the morning's repast was spread.  
  Nor was this appearance confined to the table. The little room itself was a model of
      domestic propriety. Not a speck of dust was to be seen on the simple furniture, which was also
      disposed with taste: the windows were set off with a clean muslin curtain; and the mantel was
      covered with fancy ornaments all indicative of female industry.  
  Then Kate herself!—her appearance was in perfect keeping with that of the room which owed
      its cleanliness and air of simple comfort to her. A neat cap set off her chesnut hair, which
      was arranged in plain bands: her dark stuff gown was made high in the body and long in the
      skirt, but did not conceal the gracefulness of her slender form, nor altogether prevent a
      little foot in a neat shoe and a well-turned ankle in a lily-white cotton stocking from
      occasionally revealing themselves. Then her hands were so slightly brown, her fingers so
      taper, and her nails so carefully kept, that no one, to look at them, would conceive how much
      hard work Katherine was compelled to do.  
  Though so rigidly neat and clean, Kate had nothing of the coquette about her. She was as
      bashful and artless as a child; and, besides—whom had she, the executioner's acknowledged
      niece, to captivate?  
  Although she endeavoured to greet Smithers and the hump-back with a smile, a profound
      melancholy in reality oppressed her.  
  It was one of those mornings when her uncle was to exercise his horrible calling:—this
      circumstance would alone have deeply affected her spirits, which were never too light nor
      buoyant. But on the present occasion, another cause of sorrow weighed on her soul—and that was
      the knowledge that her wretched cousin was that morning to enter on his fearful noviciate!  
  She entertained a boundless compassion for that unfortunate being. His physical deformities,
      and the treatment which he experienced from his father, called forth the kindest sympathies of
      her naturally tender heart. Moreover, he had received instruction and was in the habit of
      seeking consolation from her: she was the only friend of that suffering creature who was
      persecuted alike by nature and by man; and she perhaps felt the more acutely on his account,
      because she was so utterly powerless in protecting him from the parental ferocity which drove
      him to her for comfort.  
  when a brutal hand could wantonly torture so susceptible a spirit.  
  And to that wounded, smarting spirit she herself was all kindness—all softness—all
      conciliation—all encouragement.  
  No wonder, then, if the miserable son of the public executioner was devoted to her: no
      wonder if she were a goddess of light, and hope, and consolation, and bliss to him! To do her
      the slightest service was a source of the purest joy which that poor being could know: to be
      able to convince her by a deed,—even so slight as picking up her thread when it fell, or
      placing her chair for her in its wonted situation,—this, this was sublime happiness to the
      hump-back!  
  He could sit for hours near her, without uttering a word—but watching her like a faithful
      dog. And when her musical voice, fraught with some expression of kindness, fell upon his ear,
      how that hideous countenance would brighten up—how those coarse lips would form a smile—how
      those large dull orbs would glow with ineffable bliss!  
  But when his father was unkind to her,—unkind to Katherine, his only friend,—unkind to the
      sole being that ever had looked not only without abhorrence, but with unadulterated gentleness
      on him,—then a new spirit seemed to animate him; and the faithful creature, who received his
      own stripes with spaniel-like irresistance, burst forth in indignant remonstrance when a blow
      was levelled at her. Then his rage grew terrible; and the resigned, docile, retiring hump-back
      became transformed into a perfect demon.  
  How offensive to the delicate admirer of a maudlin romance, in which only handsome boys and
      pretty girls are supposed to be capable of playing at the game of Love, must be the statement
      which we are now about to make. But the reader who truly knows the world,—not the world of the
      sentimental novel, but the world as it really is,—will not start when we inform him that this
      being whom nature had formed in her most uncouth mould,—this creature whose deformities seemed
      to render him a connecting link between man and monkey,—this living thing that appeared to be
      but one remove above a monster, cherished a profound love for that young girl whom he esteemed
      as his guardian angel.  
  But this passion was unsuspected by her, as its nature was unknown to himself. Of course it
      was not reciprocated:—how could it be? Nevertheless, every proof of friendship—every
      testimonial of kind feeling—every evidence of compassion on her part, only tended to augment
      that attachment which the hump-back experienced for Katherine.  
  "Well, Kate," said the executioner, as he took his seat at the breakfast-table, "I've
      drilled Gibbet into the art of pinioning at last."  
  The girl made no answer; but she cast a rapid glance at the hump-back, and two tears
      trickled down her cheeks.  
  "Come, Gibbet," added Smithers; "we've no time to lose. Don't be afraid of your
      bread-and-butter: you'll get nothing to eat till you come home again to dinner."  
  "Is John going with you this morning, uncle?" inquired Katherine timidly.  
  "Why, you know he is. You only ask the question to get up a discussion once more about it,
      as you did last night."  
  This was more or less true: the generous-hearted girl hoped yet to be able to avert her
      uncle from his intention in respect to the hump-back.  
  "But I won't hear any more about it," continued the executioner, as he ate his breakfast.
      "And, then, why do you call him John?"  
  "Did you not give him that name at his baptism?" said Kate.  
  "And if I did, I've also the right to change it," returned the executioner; "and I choose
      him to be called   Gibbet  . It's more professional."  
  "I think the grocer in High Street wants an errand boy, uncle," observed Katherine, with her
      eyes fixed upon her cup—she dared not raise them to Smithers' face as she spoke: "perhaps he
      would take John—I mean my cousin—and that would be better than making him follow a calling
      which he does not fancy."  
  "Mind your own business, Miss Imperence!" ejaculated the executioner; "and let me mind mine.
      Now, then—who knocks at the front door?"  
  Gibbet rose and hastened from the room.  
  In a few moments he returned, holding in his hand a paper, which he gave to his father.  
  "Ah! I thought so," said Smithers, as he glanced his eye over the paper: "my friend Dognatch
      is always in time. Here's the   last dying speech, confession, and a true account of the
       execution   of the man that I'm to tuck up presently—all cut and dry, you see. Well—it's
      very kind of Dognatch always to send me a copy: but I suppose he thinks it's a compliment due
      to my sitiwation."  
  With these words Smithers tossed off his tea, rose, and exclaimed, "Now, Gibbet, my boy, we
      must be off."  
  "Father, I don't feel equal to it," murmured the hump-back, who seemed fixed to his
      chair.  
  "Come—without another word!" cried the executioner, in so terrible a tone that Gibbet
      started from his seat as if suddenly moved by electricity.  
  "Uncle—uncle, you will not—you cannot force this poor lad—" began Katherine, venturing upon
      a last appeal in favour of the hump-back.  
  "Kate," said the executioner, turning abruptly upon her, while his countenance wore so
      ferocious an expression of mingled determination and rage, that the young girl uttered an
      ejaculation of alarm,—"Kate, do not provoke me; or——"  
  He said no more, but darted on her a look of such dark, diabolical menace, that she sank
      back, annihilated as it were, into her seat.  
  She covered her face with her hands, and burst into an agony of tears.  
  For some moments she remained absorbed in profound grief: the fate of the wretched
      hump-back, and the idea that she herself was doomed to exist beneath the same roof with the
      horrible man whom she called her uncle, were causes of bitter anguish to her tender and
      sensitive soul.  
  When she raised her head, and glanced timidly around, she found herself alone.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLIV.   THE UNFINISHED LETTER.  
  The dawn was now breaking; and Katherine extinguished the candle.  
  How gloomily does the young day announce itself to the dwellers in the narrow
      streets and obscure alleys of the poor districts of the metropolis! The struggling gleam
      appears to contend with difficulty against the dense atmosphere and noxious vapours which
      prevail in those regions even in the midst of winter; and as each fitful ray steals through
      the dingy panes, its light seems leaden and dull, not golden and roseate as that of the orb of
      day.  
  Kate wiped away her tears, and set to work to clear the table of the breakfast-things.  
  Having performed this duty, she slipped on her neat straw bonnet and warm shawl,—purchased
      by the produce of her own industry,—and repaired to market.  
  But, alas! poor girl—as she passed rapidly through the streets, she could not help noticing
      the people, that were lounging at their doors, nudge each other, as much as to say, "There
      goes the executioner's niece."  
  And no friendly voice welcomed her with a kind "Good morning:" no human being had a passing
      compliment,—not even one of those civil phrases which cost nothing to utter, mean perhaps as
      little, but still are pleasing to hear,—to waste upon the executioner's niece.  
  Some old women, more hard-hearted than the rest, exclaimed, as she hurried timidly by the
      spot where they were gossiping, "Ah! her uncle has got business on his hands this
      morning!"  
  And when the poor girl reached the shop whither she was going, her eyes were bathed in
      tears.  
  The shopkeeper was cool and indifferent in his manner towards her—not obsequious and ready
      as towards his other customers. He even examined with suspicion the coin which she tendered
      him in payment for her purchases—as if it were impossible that honesty could dwell in the
      heart of an executioner's niece!  
  The ill-conditioned fellow! He saw not the mild blue eyes, with a tear glittering in each
      like twin-drops of the diamond-dew;—he marked not the pretty lips, apart, and expressive of
      such profound melancholy;—he observed not the thick folds of the shawl across the
      gently-budding bosom rise and sink rapidly:—no,—he beheld not that interesting young
      creature's grief; but he treated her rudely and harshly, because she was the executioner's
      niece!  
  Kate retraced her steps homewards. She saw other girls of her own age nod familiarly to
      their acquaintances at the windows, as they passed;—but she had no friend to receive or return
      her smile of recognition!  
  Shrinking within herself, as it were, from the slightest contact with the world which
      despised her, the poor young creature felt herself an interloper upon the very pavement, and
      even stepped into the muddy street to make way for those who passed.  
  With a broken spirit she returned home, her fate weighing upon her soul like a crime!  
  And so it was with her always on those mornings when her uncle was called upon to exercise
      his fearful functions.  
  She was glad to bury herself once more in that dwelling the threshold of which a friendly
      step so seldom crossed: her little parlour, embellished with her own hands, appeared a
      paradise of peace after the contumely which she experienced in the bustling streets.  
  She had returned home in so depressed a state of mind that she had forgotten to close the
      front door behind her.  
  She opened her work-box, seated herself at the table, and commenced her toil of pleasure—for
      that young girl loved her needle, and abhorred idleness.  
  She then fell into a reverie as she worked.  
  "To be a hangman is something horrible indeed," she mused aloud; "but to be a member of a
      hangman's family is far worse.   He   knows that he merits what reproach is levelled
      against him, if indeed his office deserve reproach at all; but   I  , who abhor the bare
      idea, and never so much as witnessed an execution—why should shame and obloquy redound upon
         me  ? It is like suffering for a crime of which one is innocent! O God, is this human
      justice? What have I done that the vilest and lowest should despise me? Am I not flesh and
      blood like them? do my clothes carry pollution, that the ragged beggar draws her tatters close
      to her as she passes me? Oh! give me strength, heaven, to support my wretched fate; for there
      are moments when I despair!"  
  "You are wrong to mistrust the goodness of the Almighty," said a mild voice close behind her
      chair.  
  Kate started, and looked round.  
  It was the rector of St. David's who had entered he room, unperceived by the young
      maiden.  
  "Pardon me, reverend sir," answered Kate; "I know that I am often forgetful of the wholesome
      lessons which I have received from your lips; but——"  
  "Well, well, poor child," interrupted Reginald Tracy, to whose cheeks the phrase
       "  wholesome lessons  " brought a flush of crimson—for he remembered how he himself had
      deviated from the doctrines which he had long successfully and sincerely taught: "be consoled!
      I know how sad must be our lot; and I have called this morning to see if I cannot ameliorate
      it."  
  "What? better my condition, sir?" exclaimed Katherine. "Oh! how is that possible?"  
  "We will see," answered the rector, taking a chair near the young maiden. "You are not
      altogether so friendless as you imagine."  
  "I am aware, sir, that through your goodness I received an education at the school which
      your bounty founded; and your excellent housekeeper, Mrs. Kenrick, has furnished me with
      needle-work. Oh! sir, I am not ignorant how much I owe to you both!"  
  Kate raised her mild blue eyes towards the rector's countenance; but her glance drooped
      again instantaneously, for his looks were fixed upon her in a manner which she had never
      noticed in him before, and which excited a momentary feeling of embarrassment—almost of
      alarm—in her mind.  
  But that feeling passed away as rapidly as it had arisen; and she blushed to think that she
      should have experienced such a sentiment in the presence of so holy a man and so great a
      benefactor.  
  "I did not wish to remind you of any trifling services which myself or my housekeeper may
      have rendered you, Katherine," said Reginald. "I alluded to another friend who interests
      himself in you."  
  "Another friend!" ejaculated the young girl. "Is it possible that I have   another
       friend   in the whole world?"  
  gentleman, accompanied by a police-officer, visit this house about a fortnight
      ago?"  
  "Yes—I remember—late one night——"  
  And she stopped short, being unwilling to allude to that instance of her uncle's cruelty
      which had led to the visit mentioned by the rector.  
  "Well, that gentleman feels interested in you," continued Reginald. "He saw how you were
      treated—he knows that you are unhappy."  
  "And do strangers thus interest themselves in the wretched?" asked Katherine, her eyes
      swimming in tears.  
  "Not often," replied the rector. "But this gentleman is one of the few noble exceptions to
      the general rule."  
  "He must be indeed!" exclaimed Katherine, with an enthusiasm which was almost pious.  
  "That gentleman learnt from the policeman enough to give him a favourable impression of your
      character, and to render him desirous of serving you. He pondered upon the matter for some
      days, but could come to no determination on the subject. He heard that you were anxious to
      leave this house and earn your own bread."  
  "Oh! yes—how willingly would I do so!" exclaimed Katherine fervently. "But——"  
  "But what?" demanded Reginald, in whose eyes the young maiden had never been an object of
      peculiar interest until at present;—and   now   he observed, for the first time, that her
      personal appearance was far—very far from disagreeable.  
  The truth was, that, since his fall, he had viewed every woman with different eyes from
      those through which he had before surveyed the female sex. When he himself was chaste and
      pure, he observed only the feminine mind and manner:—now his glances studied and discriminated
      between external attractions. His moral survey had become a sensual one.  
  "But what?" he said, when Katherine hesitated. "Do you object to leave your uncle?"  
  "I should be a hypocrite were I to say that I object to leave him," was the immediate
      answer. "Nevertheless, if he demanded my services, I would remain with him, through gratitude
      for the bread which he gave me, and the asylum which he afforded me, when I was a child and
      unable to earn either. But he would not seek to retain me, I know; for he does not—he cannot
      love me! Still, there is one poor creature in this house——"  
  "My housekeeper has told me of him. You mean your uncle's son?" said Reginald.  
  "I do, sir. He has no friend in the world but me; and, though my intercessions do not save
      him from much bad treatment, still I have studied to console him."  
  "If he be grateful, he will feel pleased to think that you may be removed to a happier
      situation," said the rector.  
  "True!" exclaimed Kate. "And if I only earned more money than I do here, I should be able to
      provide him with a great many little comforts."  
  "Assuredly," replied the fashionable preacher, who during this colloquy had gradually drawn
      his chair closer to that of the young maiden. "The gentleman, to whom I have before alluded,
      called upon me yesterday. It appears he learnt from the policeman that you had been educated
      at the school in my district, and that my housekeeper was well acquainted with you. He nobly
      offered to contribute a sum of money towards settling you in some comfortable manner."  
  "The generous stranger!" exclaimed Kate. "What is his name, sir—that I may pray for
      him?"  
  "Mr. Markham——"  
  "Markham!" cried the young girl, strangely excited by the mention of that name.  
  "Yes. Have you ever heard of him before?" asked the rector, surprised at the impression thus
      produced.  
  Katherine appeared to reflect profoundly for some moments; then, opening a secret drawer of
      her work-box, she drew forth a small satin bag, carefully sewed all round.  
  She took her scissors and unpicked the thread from one end of the bag.  
  The rector watched her attentively, and with as much surprise as interest.  
  Having thus opened one extremity of the bag, she inserted her delicate fingers, and produced
      a sheet of letter-paper, folded, and dingy with age.  
  Handing it to the rector, she observed, with tears streaming down her cheeks, "These were
      the last words my mother ever wrote; and she had lost the use of her speech ere she penned
      them."  
  Reginald Tracy unfolded the letter, and read as follows:——  
  "Should my own gloomy presages prove true, and the warning of my medical attendant be well
      founded,—if, in a word, the hand of Death be already extended to snatch me away thus in the
      prime of life, while my darling child is * * * * and inform Mr. Markham, whose abode is——"  
  The words that originally stood in the place which we have marked with asterisks, had
      evidently been blotted out by the tears of the writer.  
  Reginald folded the letter as he had received it, and returned it to Katherine.  
  The young girl immediately replaced it in the little bag, which she sewed up with scrupulous
      care.  
  It was the poor creature's sole treasure; and she prized it as the last and only memento
      that she possessed of her mother.  
  "And you know not to whom that unfinished letter alluded?" said the rector, after a long
      pause, during which the bag, with its precious contents, had been consigned once more to the
      secret drawer in the work-box.  
  "I have not the least idea," answered Kate, drying her tears. "I was only four years old
      when my mother died, and of course could take no steps to inquire after the Mr. Markham
      mentioned in the letter. My uncle has often assured me that he took some trouble in the
      matter, but without success. Markham, you know, sir, is by no means an uncommon name."  
  "And your father, Katherine—do you remember him?"  
  "Oh! no, sir—he died before my mother. When I was old enough to comprehend how dreadful it
      is to be an orphan, Mr. Tracy, I made that little satin bag to preserve the letter which Death
      would not allow my poor mother to finish."  
  And again the young maiden wept bitterly.  
  The rector was deeply affected; and for some minutes his sensual ideas concerning the damsel
      were absorbed in a more generous sympathy.  
  "But did not the medical man who attended your mother in her last moments, and who is also
      alluded to in the letter," asked Reginald,—"did he not afford some clue to unravel the
      mystery?"  
  "That question I have asked my uncle more than once," answered Kate; "and he has
      assured me that the medical man was a perfect stranger who was casually summoned to attend
      upon my poor mother only the very day before she breathed her last. Since then the medical man
      has also died."  
  "Your mother was your uncle's own sister, was she not?" asked the rector.  
  "She was, sir."  
  "And she married a person named Wilmot?"  
  "Yes—for my name is Katherine Wilmot."  
  "I remember that you were so entered upon the school-books," said the rector. "Your mother
      must have been a superior woman, for the language of that fragment of a letter is accurate,
      and the handwriting is good."  
  "The same thought has often struck me, sir," observed Katherine. "And now how strange it is
      that a person bearing the name of Markham should interest himself in my behalf!"  
  "Strange indeed!" exclaimed Reginald, whose eyes were once more fixed upon the interesting
      girl near him,—fixed, too, with an ardent glance, and not one of tender sympathy. "Mr. Richard
      Markham—the gentleman of whom I speak—called upon me, as I ere now stated, and besought me to
      exert myself in your behalf. He seems to think that my position and character enable me to do
      for you that which, coming from him, might awaken the tongue of scandal. The cause of my visit
      this morning is now at length explained."  
  "I am very grateful, sir, for Mr. Markham's good intentions and your kindness," said
      Katherine. "The coincidence in names, which led me to show you that letter, seems a
      providential suggestion to me to follow the counsel of such generous—such disinterested
      friends."  
  "I thought as I came along," resumed the clergyman, "that I would procure you a situation
      with some friends of mine in the country. But—" and he cast upon her a burning look brimful of
      licentiousness—"I have my doubts whether it would not be better for you to come to my house
      and assist Mrs. Kenrick in her domestic duties—especially as she is getting very
      old—and——"  
  He paused for a moment:—he hesitated, because at the back of the offer there was an unworthy
      motive at which his guilty soul quaked, lest it should betray itself.  
  But that pure-minded and artless girl only saw in that offer a noble act of kindness; and
      she frankly accepted it—upon the condition that her uncle approved of her conduct in doing
      so.  
  The rector rose—he had no farther excuse for protracting his visit.  
  The young girl thanked him for his goodness with the most heart-felt sincerity.  
  He then took his leave.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLV.   HYPOCRISY.  
  Reginald Tracy proceeded from the dwelling of the hangman to the corner of Tottenham Court
      Road, where his carriage was waiting for him.  
  He stepped into the vehicle, and ordered the coachman to drive him to Markham Place near
      Lower Holloway.  
  Richard was not at home: he had gone for a short walk with Mr. Monroe, who was yet too
      feeble to move far without the support of a companion's arm. They were, however, expected to
      return in a short time;—besides, Miss Monroe was in the drawing-room; and the rector therefore
      decided upon walking in and waiting for Mr. Markham.  
  The name of Miss Monroe produced a powerful sensation in the breast of that man whose
      passions until lately dormant from his birth, now raged so furiously. He had seen her in a
      voluptuous   negligee  , attending by the sick-bed of her father;—he had heard her utter
      words of strange self-accusing import, in connection with that parent's illness;—and his
      curiosity, as well as his desires, was kindled.  
  He had been fascinated by that charming girl; and our readers will remember   that he had
       felt himself capable of making any sacrifice to obtain her love  !  
  His mind, too, entertained a distant suspicion—a very distant one, but still a
      suspicion—that she had strayed from the path of virtue;—for of what else could a daughter,
      whom he had seen hanging like a ministering angel over her father's couch, accuse herself?  
  This suspicion—and, at all events, that mystery which hung around the accusation alluded to,
      served to inflame the imagination of a man who now sought to place no bridle upon his
      passions. The idea suggested itself to him, that if another had revelled in her charms, why
      should not he? In a word, his heart glowed with secret delight when he learnt from Whittingham
      that Miss Monroe was alone in the drawing-room.  
  On his entrance, Ellen rose from the sofa, and welcomed him with a cordiality which
      originated in a sense of gratitude for the spiritual comfort he had rendered her father during
      his illness.  
  At a glance his eyes scanned the fair form of Ellen from head to foot; and his imagination
      was instantly fired with the thoughts of her soft and swelling charms—those graceful
      undulations which were all her own, and needed no artificial aids to improve the originals of
      nature!  
  "I am pleased to learn from the servant that your father, Miss Monroe, is able to take a
      little exercise once more," said the rector.  
  "Oh! all danger is now past," exclaimed Ellen cheerfully. "But at one time, Mr. Tracy, I had
      made up my mind to lose him."  
  "I saw how much you were afflicted," observed the rector; "and I was grieved to hear you
      reproach yourself to some extent——"  
  "Reproach myself!" interrupted Ellen, blushing deeply. "You heard me reproach myself?"  
  "I did," answered the rector. "And now, forgive me, if—by virtue of my sacred calling—I make
      bold to remind you that Providence frequently tries us, through the medium of afflictions
      visited upon those whom we love, in order to punish us for our neglectfulness, our unkindness,
      or our errors, towards those so afflicted. Pardon me, Miss Monroe, for thus addressing you;
      but I should be unfaithful towards Him whom I serve, did I not avail myself of every
      opportunity to explain the lessons which his wise and just dispensations convey."  
  "Mr. Tracy," exclaimed Ellen, cruelly embarrassed by this language, "do you really believe
      that Providence punished my father for some misconduct on my part?"  
  "Judging by the reproach—the accusation which your lips uttered against
      yourself—perhaps in an unguarded moment—when you ministered with angelic tenderness at your
      father's sick-bed——"  
  "Sir—Mr. Tracy, this is too much!" cried Ellen, tears starting from her eyes, while her
      cheeks were suffused with blushes: "it is unmanly—it is ungenerous to take advantage of any
      expressions which might have been wrung from me in a moment of acute anguish."  
  "Pardon me, young lady," said the rector with apparent meekness: "heaven knows the purity of
      my intentions in thus addressing you. It is not always that my spiritual aid is thus
      rejected—that my motives are thus cruelly suspected."  
  "Forgive me, sir,—I was wrong to excite myself at words which were meant in kindness," said
      Ellen, completely deceived by this consummate hypocrisy.  
  "Miss Monroe," continued Reginald, "believe me when I assure you that I feel deep
      compassion—deep interest, wherever I perceive grief—especially when that sorrow is secret.
      And, if my eyes have not deceived me, methinks I have read in your young heart the existence
      of some such secret sorrow. My aim is to console you; for the consolation which I can offer is
      not human—it is divine! I am but the humble   instrument   of the supernal Goodness; but
      God imparts solace through even the least worthy of his ministers."  
  "I thank you sincerely for your friendly intentions towards me," said Ellen, now recovering
      her presence of mind; "but, since my father is restored to health, I have little to vex
      me."  
  "And yet that self-reproach, Miss Monroe," persisted the rector, determined not to abandon
      the point to which he had so dexterously conducted the conversation,—"that self-accusation
      which escaped your lips——"  
  "Is a family secret, Mr. Tracy, which may not be revealed," interrupted Ellen firmly.  
  "I ask you not for your confidence, Miss Monroe: think not that I seek to pry into your
      affairs with an impertinent curiosity——"  
  "Once more, sir, I thank you for the kindness which prompts you thus to address me;
      but—pray, let us change the conversation."  
  These words were uttered in so decided a tone, that Reginald dared not persist in his
      attempt to thrust himself into the young lady's confidence.  
  An awkward silence ensued; and the rector was thinking how he should break it, when the door
      opened.  
  Almost at the same moment, a female voice was heard outside the room, saying, in tender
      playfulness, "Come to mamma! come to mamma!"  
  Then, immediately afterwards, Marian entered the apartment, bearing an infant in her
      arms.  
  Whittingham had neglected to tell her that there was a visitor in the drawing-room.  
  Poor Marian, astounded at the presence of the rector, could neither advance nor retreat for
      some moments.  
  At length she turned abruptly away.  
  Ellen sank back upon the sofa, overcome with shame and grief.  
  The rector threw upon her a glance full of meaning; but she saw it not—for her own eyes were
      cast down.  
  This depression, however, lasted only for a moment. Suddenly raising her head, she exclaimed
      with that boldness and firm frankness which had been taught her by the various circumstances
      of the last few years of her life, "You now know my secret, sir: but you are a man of honour.
      I need say no more."  
  "Who has been base enough to leave this grievous wrong unrepaired?" asked Reginald, taking
      her hand—that soft, warm, delicate hand.  
  "Nay—seek to know no more," returned Ellen, withdrawing her hand hastily from what she
      however conceived to be only the pressure of a friendly or fraternal interest; "you have
      learnt too much already. For God's sake, let not my father know that you have discovered his
      daughter's shame!"  
  "Not for worlds would I do aught to cause you pain!" cried the rector, enthusiastically.  
  "Thank you—thank you," murmured Ellen, completely deceived in respect to the cause of
      Tracy's warmth, and mistaking for friendly interest an ebullition of feeling which was in
      reality gross and sensual.  
  With these words Ellen hurried from the room.  
  "I have discovered her secret!" said the rector triumphantly to himself, as he rose and
      paced the apartment, mad passions raging in his breast; "and that discovery shall make her
      mine. Oh! no sacrifice were too great to obtain possession of that charming creature! I would
      give the ten best years of my life to clasp her in my arms, in the revels of love!
      Happy—thrice happy should I be to feel that lovely form become supple and yielding in my
      embrace! But my brain burns—my heart beats—my eyes throb—my blood seems liquid fire!"  
  Reginald threw himself, exhausted by the indomitable violence of his passions, upon the
      sofa.  
  Scarcely had he time to compose himself, when Markham entered the room.  
  The rector communicated to him the particulars of his interview with Katherine Wilmot, and
      concluded by saying that, as the girl was known to his housekeeper, he had determined upon
      taking her into his service.  
  "With regard to the fragment of the letter," observed Richard, "allusion must have been made
      to some person of the name of Markham who is totally unconnected with our family. We have no
      relations of that name. I feel convinced that the mention of the name could not in any way
      refer to my father; and my brother and myself were children at the time when that letter must
      have been written."  
  "It is a coincidence—and that is all," observed the rector. "But as you have to some extent
      constituted yourself the benefactor of this young person, do you approve of the arrangement
      which I have made for her to enter my household?"  
  "My dear sir, how can I object?" exclaimed Richard, who, in the natural generosity of his
      heart, gave the rector credit for the most worthy motives. "I consider myself your debtor for
      your noble conduct in this instance. Under your roof, Mr. Tracy, the breath of calumny cannot
      reach that poor creature; and   there   no one will dare to make her family connexions a
      subject of reproach."  
  that a violent shower of rain was pouring down.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Richard pressed the rector to remain to dinner—an invitation which he, whose head was filled
      with Ellen, did not hesitate to accept.  
  The rector's carriage and horses were accordingly housed in the stables attached to Markham
      Place; and Whittingham was desired to make Mr. Tracy's coachman and livery-servant as
      comfortable as possible—instructions with which the hospitable old butler did not fail to
      comply.  
  Dinner was served up at five o'clock; and Reginald had the felicity of sitting next to Miss
      Monroe.  
  The more he saw of this young lady, the more did he become enraptured with her,—not,
      however, experiencing a pure and chaste affection, but one whose ingredients were completely
      sensual.  
  The evening passed rapidly away;—the rain continued to pour in torrents.  
  As a matter of courtesy—indeed, of hospitality, for Richard's nature was generosity
      itself—the rector was pressed to stay the night at the Place; and, although he had a good
      close carriage to convey him home (and persons who have such equipages are seldom over careful
      of their servants), he accepted the invitation.  
  There was something so pleasing—so intoxicating in the idea of passing the night under the
      same roof with Ellen!  
  
  CHAPTER CXLVI.   THE BATH.—THE HOUSEKEEPER.  
  It was scarcely light when the rector of Saint David's rose from a couch where visions of a
      most voluptuous nature had filled his sleep.  
  Having hastily dressed himself, he descended from his room with the intention of seeking the
      fine frosty air of the garden to cool his heated brain.  
  But as he proceeded along a passage leading to the landing of the first flight of stairs, he
      heard a light step slowly descending the upper flight; and the next moment, the voice of Ellen
      speaking fondly to her child, fell upon his ear.  
  For nurses and mothers will talk to babes of even a few months old—although the
      innocents comprehend them not!  
  Reginald stepped into the recess formed by the door of one of the bed-chambers in that
      spacious mansion; and scarcely had he concealed himself there when he saw Ellen, with the
      child in her arms, pass across the landing at the end of the passage, and enter a room on the
      other side.  
  She wore a loose dressing-gown of snowy whiteness, which was confined by a band round her
      delicate waist, and was fastened up to the throat: her little feet had been hastily thrust
      into a pair of buff morocco slippers; and her long shining hair flowed over her shoulders and
      down her back.  
  The licentious eyes of the clergyman followed her from the foot of the stairs to the room
      which she entered; and even plunged with eager curiosity into that chamber during the moment
      that the door was open as she went in.  
  That glance enabled him to perceive that there was a bath in the apartment to which Ellen
      had proceeded with her child.  
  Indeed, the young lady, ever since her residence at Markham Place, had availed herself of
      the luxury of the bathing-room which that mansion possessed: and every morning she immersed
      her beautiful person in the refreshing element, which she enjoyed in its natural state in
      summer, but which was rendered slightly tepid for her in winter.  
  When the rector beheld her descend in that bewitching   negligee  ,—her hair
      unconfined, and floating at will—her small, round, polished ankles glancing between the white
      drapery and the little slippers,—and the child, with merely a thick shawl thrown about it, in
      her arms,—and when he observed the bath in that chamber which she entered, he immediately
      comprehended her intention.  
  Without a moment's hesitation he stole softly from the recess where he had concealed
      himself, and approached the door of the bath-room.  
  His greedy eyes were applied to the key-hole; and his licentious glance plunged into the
      depths of that sacred privacy.  
  The unsuspecting Ellen was warbling cheerfully to her child.  
  She dipped her hand into the water, which Marian had prepared for her, and found the degree
      of heat agreeable to her wishes.  
  Then she placed the towels near the fire to warm.  
  Reginald watched her proceedings with the most ardent curiosity: the very luxury of the
      unhallowed enjoyment which he experienced caused an oppression at his chest; his heart beat
      quickly; his brain seemed to throb with violence.  
  The fires of gross sensuality raged madly in his breast.  
  Ellen's preparations were now completed.  
  With her charming white hand she put back her hair from her forehead.  
  Then, as she still retained the child on her left arm, with her right hand she loosened the
      strings which closed her dressing-gown round the neck and the band which confined it at the
      waist.  
  While thus occupied, she was partly turned towards the door; and all the treasures of her
      bosom were revealed to the ardent gaze of the rector.  
  His desires were now inflamed to that pitch when they almost become ungovernable. He felt
      that could he possess that charming creature, he would care not for the result—even though he
      forced her to compliance with his wishes, and murder and suicide followed,—the murder of her,
      and the suicide of himself!  
  He was about to grasp the handle of the door, when he remembered that he had heard the key
      turn in the lock immediately after she had entered the room.  
  He gnashed his teeth with rage.  
  And now the drapery had fallen from her shoulders, and the whole of her voluptuous form,
      naked to the waist, was exposed to his view.  
  He could have broken down the door, had he not feared to alarm the other inmates of the
      house.  
  He literally trembled under the influence of his fierce desires.  
  How he envied—Oh! how he envied the innocent babe which the fond mother pressed to that
      bosom—swelling, warm, and glowing!  
  And now she prepared to step into the bath: but, while he was waiting with fervent avidity
      for the moment when the whole of the drapery should fall from her form, a step suddenly
      resounded upon the stairs.  
  He started like a guilty wretch away from the door: and, perceiving that the footsteps
      descended the upper flight, he precipitated himself down the stairs.  
  Rushing across the hall, he sought the garden, where he wandered up and down, a thousand
      wild feelings agitating his breast.  
  He determined that Ellen should be his; but he was not collected enough to deliberate upon
      the means of accomplishing his resolution,—so busy was his imagination in conjuring up the
      most voluptuous idealities, which were all prompted by the real scene the contemplation
      whereof had been interrupted.  
  He fancied that he beheld the lovely young mother immersed in the bath—the water agitated by
      her polished limbs—each ripple kissing some charm, even as she herself kissed her babe!  
  Then he imagined he saw her step forth like a Venus from the ocean—her cheeks flushed with
      animation—her long glossy hair floating in rich undulations over her ivory shoulders.  
  "My God!" he exclaimed, at length, "I shall grow mad under the influence of this
      fascination! One kiss from her lips were worth ten thousand of the meretricious embraces which
      Cecilia yields so willingly. Oh! Ellen would not surrender herself without many prayers—much
      entreaty—and, perhaps, force;—but Cecilia falls into my arms without a struggle! Enjoyment
      with her is not increased by previous bashfulness;—she does not fire the soul by one moment of
      resistance. But Ellen—so coy, so difficult to win,—so full of confidence in herself, in spite
      of that one fault which accident betrayed to me,—Ellen, so young and inexperienced in the ways
      of passion,—Oh! she were a conquest worth every sacrifice that man could make!"  
  The rector's reverie was suddenly interrupted by the voice of Whittingham summoning him to
      the breakfast-room.  
  Thither he proceeded; and there Ellen, now attired in a simple but captivating
      morning-dress, presided.  
  Little did she imagine that the privacy of her bath had been invaded—violated by
      the glance of that man who now seated himself next to her, and whose sanctity was deemed to be
      above all question.  
  Little, either, did her father and friend suppose that there was one present who had vowed
      that she should be his, and who, in connection with that determination, had entertained no
      thought of marriage.  
  The ramble in the garden had so far cooled the rector's brain, that nothing in his behaviour
      towards Ellen was calculated to excite observation; but, from time to time, when unperceived,
      he cast upon her a glance of fervent admiration—a long, fixed, devouring glance, which denoted
      profound passion.  
  At length the hour for departure arrived; and his carriage drove round to the front
      door.  
  The rain of the preceding evening had changed to frost during the night;—the morning was
      fine, fresh, and healthy, though intensely cold; there was hence no shadow of an excuse for a
      longer stay.  
  The rector expressed his thanks for the hospitality which he had experienced, with that
      politeness which so eminently characterised his manners; and when he shook hands with Ellen,
      he pressed hers gently.  
  She thought that he intended to convey a sort of assurance that the secret which he had
      detected on the previous day, was sacred with him; and she cast upon him a rapid glance,
      expressive of gratitude.  
  Reginald then stepped into the carriage, which immediately rolled rapidly away towards
      London.  
  Upon his arrival at home, he proceeded straight to his study, whither he was immediately
      followed by the old housekeeper.  
  "Leave me—leave me, Mrs. Kenrick," said the rector; "I wish to be alone."  
  "I thought something had happened, sir," observed the old woman, fidgetting about the room,
      for with senile pertinacity she was resolved to say what she had upon her mind: "I thought
      so," she continued, "because this is the first time you ever stayed out all night without
      sending me word what kept you."  
  "I am not aware that I owe you an account of my actions, Mrs. Kenrick," said the rector,
      who, like all guilty persons, was half afraid that his conduct was suspected by the old
      woman.  
  "Certainly not, sir; and I never asked it. But after all the years I have been with you, and
      the confidence you have always reposed in me—until within the last week or two," added the old
      housekeeper, "I was afraid lest I had done something to offend you."  
  "No such thing," said the rector, somewhat softened. "But as the cares of my ministry
      multiply upon me——"  
  "Ah! sir, they must have multiplied of late," interrupted the old woman; "for you're not the
      same man you were."  
  "How do you mean?" demanded Reginald, now once more irritated.  
  "You have seemed restless, unsettled, and unhappy, for some two or three weeks past, sir,"
      answered the housekeeper, wiping away a tear from her eye. "And then you are not so regular in
      your habits as you were: you go out and come in oftener;—sometimes you stay out till very
      late; at others you come home, send me up to bed, and say that you yourself are going to
      rest;—nevertheless, I hear you about the house——"  
  "Nonsense!" ejaculated Reginald, struck by the imprudence of which he had been guilty in
      admitting Lady Cecilia into his abode. "Do not make yourself unhappy, Mrs. Kenrick: nothing
      ails me, I can assure you. But—tell me," he added, half afraid to ask the question; "have you
      heard any one else remark—I mean, make any observation—that is, speak as you do about
      me——"  
  "Well, sir, if you wish for the truth," returned the housekeeper, "I must say that the clerk
      questioned me yesterday morning about you."  
  "The clerk!" ejaculated Reginald; "and what did he say?"  
  "Oh? he merely thought that you had something on your mind—some annoyance which worried
      you——"  
  "He is an impertinent fellow!" cried the rector, thrown off his guard by the alarming
      announcement that a change in his behaviour had been observed.  
  "He only speaks out of kindness, sir—as I do," observed the housekeeper, with a deep
      sigh.  
  "Well, well, Mrs. Kenrick," said the rector, vexed at his own impatience: "I was wrong to
      mistrust the excellence of his motives. To tell the truth, I have had some little cause of
      vexation—the loss of a large sum—through the perfidy of a pretended friend—and——"  
  The rector floundered in the midst of his falsehood; but the old housekeeper readily
      believed him, and was rejoiced to think that he had at length honoured her with his confidence
      in respect to the cause of that restlessness which she had mistaken for a secret grief.  
  "But no one else has made any remark, my dear Mrs. Kenrick?" said the rector, in a tone of
      conciliation "I mean—no one has questioned you—or——"  
  "Only Lady Cecilia Harborough sent yesterday afternoon to request you to call upon her,
      sir."  
  "Ah!—well?"  
  "And of course I said to her servant-maid that you were not at home. She came back in the
      evening, and seemed much disappointed that you were still absent. Then she returned again,
      saying that her mistress was ill and wished to consult you upon business."  
  "And what did you tell her, Mrs. Kenrick?"  
  "That you had not returned, sir," answered the housekeeper, surprised at the question, as if
      there were any thing else to tell save the truth. "The servant-maid seemed more and more
      disappointed, and called again as early as eight o'clock this morning."  
  "This morning!" echoed Reginald, seriously annoyed at this repetition of visits from Lady
      Cecilia's confidential servant.  
  "Yes, sir; and when I said that you had not been home all night, she appeared quite
      surprised," continued the housekeeper.  
  "And you told her that I had not been home all night?" mused Reginald. "What must Lady
      Cecilia think?"  
  "Think, sir?" cried the housekeeper, more surprised still at her master's observations. "You
      can owe no account of your actions, sir, to Lady Cecilia Harborough."  
  cruelly embarrassed: "I only thought that evil tongues——"  
  "The Reverend Reginald Tracy is above calumny," said the housekeeper, who was as proud of
      her master as she was attached to him.  
  "True—true, Mrs. Kenrick," exclaimed the rector. "And yet—but, after all no matter. I will
      go and call in Tavistock Square at once; and then I can explain——"  
  Up to this moment the housekeeper had spoken in the full conviction that annoyance alone was
      the cause of her master's recent change of behaviour and present singularity of manners; but
      his increasing embarrassment—the strangeness of his observations relative to Lady Cecilia—his
      anxiety lest she should entertain an evil idea concerning his absence from home,—added to a
      certain vague rumour which had reached her ears relative to the lightness of that lady's
      character,—all these circumstances, united with the fact of Cecilia having sent so often to
      request Mr. Tracy to call upon her, suddenly engendered a suspicion of the truth in the
      housekeeper's mind.  
  "Before you go out again, sir," said the housekeeper, wishing to discard that suspicion, and
      therefore hastening to change the conversation to another topic, "I should mention to you that
      yesterday afternoon—between one and two o'clock—Katherine Wilmot arrived here——"  
  "Indeed! What, so soon?" exclaimed the rector.  
  "And as she assured me that you had only a few hours before offered her a situation in your
      household," continued Mrs. Kenrick, "I did not hesitate to take her in. Besides, she is a good
      girl, and I am not sorry that she should leave her uncle's roof."  
  "Then you approve of my arrangement, Mrs. Kenrick?" said Reginald.  
  "Certainly, sir—if I have the right to approve or disapprove," answered the old lady, who,
      in spite of the natural excellence of her heart, was somewhat piqued at not having been
      previously consulted upon the subject: then, ashamed of this littleness of feeling, she
      hastily added, "But the poor girl has a sad story to tell, sir, about the way in which she
      left her uncle; and, with your permission, I will send her up to you."  
  "Do so," said the rector, not sorry to be relieved of the presence of his housekeeper, in
      whose manner his guilty conscience made him see a peculiarity which filled his mind with
      apprehension.  
  In a few minutes Katherine Wilmot entered the rector's study.  
  Her story was brief but painful.  
  "After you left, sir, I sate thinking upon your very great kindness and that of Mr. Markham,
      and how happy I should be to have an opportunity of convincing you both that I was anxious to
      deserve all you proposed to do for me. The hours slipped away; and for the first time I forgot
      to prepare my uncle's dinner punctually to the minute. I know that I was wrong, sir—but I had
      so much to think about, both past and future! Well, sir, one o'clock struck; and nothing was
      ready. I started up, and did my best. But in a few minutes my uncle and cousin came in. My
      uncle, sir, was rather cross—indeed, if I must speak the truth, very cross; because his son
      had absolutely refused to assist him in his morning's work. I need not say, sir," continued
      the girl, with a shudder, "what that work was. The first thing my uncle did was to ask if his
      dinner was ready? I told him the whole truth, but assured him that not many minutes would
      elapse before it would be ready. You do not want to know, sir, all he said to me; it is quite
      sufficient to say that he turned me out of doors. I cried, and begged very hard to part from
      him in friendship—for, after all, sir, he is my nearest relation on the face of the earth—and,
      then, he brought me up! But he closed the door, and would not listen to me."  
  Katherine ceased, and wiped her eyes.  
  The poor girl had said nothing of the terrific beating which the executioner inflicted upon
      Gibbet the moment they returned home, and then upon Katherine herself before he thrust her out
      of the house.  
  "Have you brought away your mother's letter with you, Katherine?" inquired the rector, who
      during the maiden's simple narrative, had never taken his eyes off her.  
  "My uncle sent round all my things in the evening, by my unfortunate cousin," replied
      Katherine; "and amongst the rest, my work-box where I keep the letter. It is safe in my
      possession, sir."  
  "Take care of it, Kate," observed the rector; "who knows but that it may some day be of
      service?"  
  "Oh! sir, and even if it should not," ejaculated the girl, "it is at all events the only
      memento I possess of my poor mother."  
  "True—you told me so," said Reginald, prolonging the conversation only because the presence
      of an interesting female had become his sole enjoyment. "And now, my dear," continued the
      rector, rising from his seat, and approaching her, "be steady—conduct yourself well—and you
      will find me a good master."  
  "I will not be ungrateful, sir," returned Katherine.  
  "And you must endeavour to relieve Mrs. Kenrick of all onerous duties as much as possible,"
      said the rector. "Thus, you had better always answer my bell yourself, when the footman is not
      in the way."  
  "I will make a point of doing so, sir," was the artless reply.  
  The rector gave some more trivial directions, and dismissed his new domestic to her
      duties.  
  He then hastened to Tavistock Square, to appease Lady Harborough, whose jealousy, he
      suspected, had been aroused by his absence from home.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLVII.   THE RECTOR'S NEW PASSION.  
  To make his peace with Lady Cecilia was by no means a difficult matter; and it was
      accomplished rather by the aid of the rector's purse than his caresses.  
  He remained to dinner with the syren who had first seduced him from the paths of virtue,
      which he had pursued so brilliantly and triumphantly—too brilliantly and triumphantly to
      ensure stability!  
  In the evening, when they were seated together upon the sofa, Reginald implored her to be
      more cautious in her proceedings in future.  
  often to request my presence? The most unsuspicious would be excited; and my
      housekeeper has spoken to me in a manner that has seriously alarmed me."  
  "Forgive me, Reginald," murmured Cecilia, casting her arms around him; "but I was afraid you
      were unfaithful to me."  
  "And to set at rest your own selfish jealousies, you would compromise me," said the rector.
      "Do you know that my housekeeper has overheard me moving about at night when I have admitted
      you, or descended the stairs to let you out before day-light? and, although she attributes
      that fact to restlessness on my part, it would require but little to excite her
      suspicions."  
  "Again I say forgive me, Reginald," whispered Cecilia, accompanying her words with
      voluptuous kisses, so that in a short time the rector's ill-humour was completely subdued.
      "Tell me," she added, "may I not visit you again? say—shall I come to you to-night?"  
  "No, Cecilia," answered the clergyman; "we must exercise some caution. Let a week or a
      fortnight pass, so that my housekeeper may cease to think upon the subject which has attracted
      her notice and alarmed me; and then—then, dearest Cecilia, we will set no bounds to our
      enjoyment."  
  Reginald Tracy now rose, embraced his mistress, and took his leave.  
  But it was not to return home immediately.  
  His mind was filled with Ellen's image; and, even while in the society of Lady Cecilia, he
      had been pondering upon the means of gratifying his new passion—of possessing that lovely
      creature of whose charms he had caught glimpses that had inflamed him to madness.  
  Amongst a thousand vague plans, one had struck him. He remembered the horrible old woman of
      Golden Lane, who had enticed him to her house under a pretence of seeing a beautiful statue,
      and had thereby led him back to the arms of Lady Cecilia Harborough.  
  To her he was determined to proceed; for he thought that he might be aided in his designs by
      that ingenuity of which he had received so signal a proof.  
  Accordingly, wrapping himself up in his cloak, he repaired directly from Lady Cecilia's
      house to the vile court in Golden Lane.  
  It was past seven o'clock in the evening when he reached the old hag's abode.  
  She was dozing over a comfortable fire; and her huge cat slept upon her lap. Even in the
      midst of her nap, the harridan mechanically stretched forth her bony hand from time to time,
      and stroked the animal down the back; and then it purred in acknowledgment of that caress
      which to a human being would have been hideous.  
  Suddenly a knock at the door awoke the hag.  
  "Business—business," murmured the old woman, as she rose, placed the cat upon the rug, and
      hastened to answer the door: "no idle visitor comes to me at this time."  
  The moment she opened the door the rector rushed in.  
  "Gently, gently," said the old hag: "there is nothing to alarm you in this neighbourhood.
      Ah!" she cried, as Reginald Tracy laid aside his hat and cloak; "is it you, sir? I am not
      surprised to see you again."  
  "And why not?" demanded the rector, as he threw himself into a chair.  
  "Because all those who wander in the mazes of love, sooner or later require my services,"
      answered the hag; "be they men or women."  
  "You have divined my object in seeking you," said the rector. "I love a charming creature,
      and know not how to obtain possession of her."  
  "You could not have come to a better place for aid and assistance, sir," observed the
      harridan, with one of her most significant and, therefore, most wicked leers.  
  "But can I trust you? will you be faithful? what guarantee have I that you will not betray
      me to Lady Harborough, whose jealousy is so soon excited?" cried Reginald.  
  "If you pay me well I am not likely to lose a good patron by my misconduct," answered the
      old woman boldly. "In a word, my left hand knows not what my right hand does."  
  "Well spoken," said the rector; and, taking gold from his purse, he flung it upon the table,
      adding, "Be this your retaining fee; but it is as nothing compared to what I will give you if
      you succeed in a matter on which I have set my heart."  
  "You must be candid with me, and tell me every particular, sir," said the hag, as she
      gathered up the gold with avidity.  
  "I have seen the young lady to whom I allude, but on three or four occasions," continued the
      rector; "and yet I have discovered much concerning her. She has been weak already, and has a
      child of some six or seven months old. That child was not born in wedlock; nor, indeed, has
      its mother ever borne the name of wife."  
  "Then the conquest cannot be so difficult," murmured the hag.  
  "I am not sure of that," said Reginald Tracy. "Without knowing any thing of her history, I
      am inclined to believe that some deep treachery—some foul wrong must have entrapped that young
      lady into error. She lives in the most respectable way; and neither by her manner nor her
      looks could her secret be divined. Accident alone revealed it to me."  
  "It may serve our purpose—it may serve our purpose," cried the harridan, musing.  
  "She dwells with her father, at the house of a friend—a very young man——"  
  "Ah!" cried the hag, struck by this information. "What is her name?"  
  "Ellen Monroe," replied the rector.  
  "I thought so," exclaimed the old woman.  
  "You know her, then?" cried Reginald Tracy in astonishment. "Are you sure she is the same
      whom you imagine her to be?"  
  "She resides at the house of Mr. Markham in Holloway—does she not?"  
  "She does. But how came you to be acquainted with her? what cause of intimacy could exist
      between you and her?" demanded the rector.  
  "My left hand never knows what my right hand does," said the hag. "If I reveal to you the
      affairs of another, how could you put confidence in me when I declare that your own secrets
      shall not be communicated to Lady Harborough or any one else who might question me?"  
  "True!" said the rector: "I cannot blame your discretion. "But tell me—have you any hope
      that I may succeed?"  
  "The business is a difficult one," answered the hag. "And yet greater obstacles
      than I can here see have been overcome—aye, and by me, too. Did I not tell Lady Harborough
      that I would bring you back to her arms? and did I not succeed? Am I then to be foiled now.
      Show me the weakness of a human being, and I direct all my energies against that failing.
      Ellen Monroe has two vulnerable points——"  
  "Which are they?" asked the rector eagerly.  
  "Her vanity and her love for her father," replied the harridan. "Leave her to me: when I am
      ready for you I will call upon you."  
  "And you will lose no time, good woman?" said the rector, overjoyed at the hopes held out to
      him.  
  "I will not let the grass grow under my feet," returned the hag. "But you must have
      patience; for the girl is stubborn—sadly stubborn. Art, and not entreaties, will prevail with
      her."  
  "In any case, manage your matters in such a way that I cannot be compromised," said the
      rector; "and your reward shall be most liberal."  
  "Trust to me," murmured the hag.  
  Reginald Tracy once more enveloped himself in his cloak, and took his departure.  
  "And so I have made a discovery this evening!" mused the hag, when she was once more alone.
      "Miss Ellen is a mother—she has a child of six or seven months old! She never told me that
      when she came to seek my aid, and I gave her the card of the Mesmerist;—she never told me that
      when she sought me after that, and I sent her to the Manager;—she never told me that when I
      met her at Greenwood's house in the country, and from which she escaped by the window. The
      cunning puss! She does not even think that I know where she lives;—but Lafleur told me
      that—Lafleur told me that! He is the prince of French valets—worth a thousand such moody,
      reserved Italians as Filippo! So now the rector must possess Miss Ellen? Well—and he shall,
      too, if I have any skill left—if I have any ingenuity to aid him!"  
  Then the hag concealed the five pieces of glittering gold which the rector had given her, in
      her Dutch clock; and having thus secured the wages of her iniquity, she proceeded to mix
      herself a steaming glass of gin-and-water to assist her meditations concerning the business
      entrusted to her.  
  "Yes," she said, continuing her musings aloud, "I must not fail in this instance. The rector
      is a patron who will not spare his gold; and Ellen may not be the only one he may covet. I
      warrant he will not keep me unemployed! These parsons are terrible fellows when once they give
      way; and I should think the rector has not been long at this game, or he could scarcely have
      contrived to maintain his reputation as he has. How the world would be astonished did it know
      all! But I am astonished at nothing—not I! No—no—I have seen too much in my time. And if I
      repent of any thing—but no I do not repent:—still, if I   did   sometimes think of
         one   more than   another  , 'tis of that poor Harriet Wilmot! I should like to
      know what became of her. It must be sixteen or seventeen years since   that  
      occurred;—but the mention of the name of Markham just now, brought it all fresh back again to
      my mind. Well—it cannot be helped: it was in the way of business like any thing else!"  
  Let us leave the horrible old hag at her musings, and relate a little incident which
      occurred elsewhere, and which, however trivial the reader may deem it now, is not without
      importance in respect to a future portion of our narrative.  
  The rector had reached the door of his own house, after his interview with the old hag, and
      was about to knock when he perceived, by the light of the gas lamp, a strange-looking being
      standing on the step.  
  "What do you want, my good lad?" asked Reginald.  
  "Please, sir, I want to speak to Kate Wilmot, my cousin," answered Gibbet—for it was he.  
  "Indeed! I suppose, then, that you are the son of—of——" and Reginald stopped; for he did not
      like to wound the hump-back's feelings by saying "of the hangman," and at that moment he had
      forgotten the name of Katherine's uncle.  
  "My name is Smithers, sir," said the lad.  
  "Ah! Smithers—so it is," cried the rector. "Well, my good lad, I cannot think of preventing
      Katherine's relations from coming to see her if they choose; but, as she is now in a good
      place and respectably settled, it would perhaps be prudent that those visits should occur as
      seldom as possible—I mean, not too often."  
  "I'm sure, sir, I'm very sorry if I have offended you, by coming," sobbed the poor
      hump-back; "and I would not for all the world injure Kate in the opinion of those friends who
      have been so kind as to provide for her."  
  "Yon have done no harm—I am not angry with you," said the rector. "Only Mrs. Kenrick, my
      housekeeper, is very particular, and does not like the servants to have many visitors."  
  "Then I won't come any more, sir," murmured Gibbet, whose heart was ready to break at this
      cruel announcement.  
  "Yes—you may come and see your cousin every Sunday evening."  
  "Oh! thank you, sir—thank you kindly, sir!" ejaculated the hump-back, in a tone of touching
      sincerity.  
  "Every Sunday evening, then, let it be," continued the rector. "And now go round by the back
      way, and see her to-night, since you wish to do so."  
  The hump-back literally bounded with joy off the steps, and hurried to the stable-yard,
      whence there was a means of communication with the servants' offices attached to the rector's
      house.  
  As he drew near the back-door, he observed lights through the kitchen-windows; and he
      stopped for a moment to observe if Katherine were within.  
  In order to see into the kitchen, which, with its offices, formed a sort of out-house
      joining the main dwelling, the hump-back was compelled to climb upon a covered dust-hole
      standing in an obscure nook on the opposite side of the yard, and so shrouded in darkness that
      no one passing through the yard could observe a person concealed there.  
  The idea of ascertaining if Kate were in the kitchen at that moment, was not a mere whim on
      the part of the hump-back: he was afraid that, if she were not, he might not be allowed to
      return, and was therefore apprehensive of not seeing her that evening at all.  
  he commanded a full view of the interior of the kitchen.  
  Yes—Kate was there, seated at the table, and occupied with her needle.  
  She was alone too.  
  Gibbet remained in his hiding-place for some minutes, contemplating, with melancholy
      pleasure, the interesting countenance of the young girl.  
  At length it struck him that it was growing late, and that his visit must not last long.  
  He let himself gently down from the eminence to which he had clambered; and as he was about
      to turn away, to cross the yard to the kitchen door, he stopped short, as if an idea had
      suddenly entered his mind.  
  Casting a look back upon the obscure place from which he had just emerged, he muttered
      between his teeth, "No Kate—they shall not prevent me from seeing you of an evening when I
      will—and when, too, you will little suspect that I am so near."  
  He then walked over to the kitchen door, and knocked gently.  
  Kate herself rose to open it, and with unfeigned pleasure admitted the hump-back.  
  "Mr. Tracy says that I may come and see you every Sunday evening, Kate," were Gibbet's first
      words: "you won't say no—will you, Kate?"  
  "Certainly not, John," answered the maiden. "I shall always be glad to see you, my poor
      cousin," she added compassionately.  
  "Oh! I know you will, Kate," exclaimed the hump-back. "I have missed you so all yesterday
      afternoon, and all to-day; and father is more unkind to me than ever," he added, the tears
      trickling down his cheeks.  
  "We must hope that better times await you, John," said Katherine, in a soothing tone.  
  "Never for me," observed Gibbet, with a profound sigh. "Father does not cease to upbraid me
      for my conduct yesterday morning. But I could not help it. I went down to Newgate with the
      intention to do my best; but when I got there, and found myself face to face with the
      miserable wretch who was about to suffer,—when I saw his awful pale face, his wild glaring
      eyes, his distorted features, his quivering limbs,—and when I heard him murmur every other
      moment, '  O Lord! O Lord!  ' in a tone scarcely audible and yet expressive of such
      intense anguish,—I could not lay a finger upon him! When my father gave me the twine to pinion
      him, it fell from my hands; and I believe I felt as much as the unfortunate man himself. Oh!
      heavens—his face will haunt me in my dreams as long as I live. I never shall forget it—it was
      so ghastly, so dreadful! I would not have had any thing to do with taking that man's life
      away—no, not for all the world. I did not see a criminal before me—I only saw a
      fellow-creature from whom   his   fellow-creatures were about to take away something
      which God alone gave, and which God alone should have the right to recall. I thought of all
      this; and I was paralysed. And it was because my nature would not let me touch so much as the
      hem of that man's garment to do him harm, that my father upbraids and beats me. Oh! it is too
      cruel, Kate—it is too cruel to bear!"  
  "It is, my poor cousin," answered the girl; "but let me entreat you to submit patiently—as
      patiently as you can. Times must change for you—as they have for me."  
  These last words she uttered in a half-tone of self-reproach, as if she upbraided herself
      with having left her unfortunate cousin to the mercy of his brutal father.  
  But how could she have done otherwise, poor girl?  
  The conversation between that interesting young creature and the hump-back continued in
      pretty much the same strain for about half-an-hour, when Gibbet took leave of his cousin.  
  "You will come and see me next Sunday, John," said Katharine, as she shook him warmly by the
      hand.  
  "Next Sunday evening, dear Kate," he replied, and then departed.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLVIII.   THE OLD HAG'S INTRIGUE.  
  On the morning after she had received the visit from the Reverend Reginald Tracy, the old
      hag rose early, muttering to herself, "I must lose no time—I must lose no time."  
  She then proceeded to dress herself in her holiday attire, each article of which was
      purchased with the wages of her infamous trade.  
  Female frailty—female shame had clothed the hag: female dishonour had produced her a warm
      gown, a fine shawl, and a new bonnet.  
  When she was young she had lived by the sale of herself: now that she was old she lived by
      the sale of others.  
  And she gloried in all the intrigues which she successfully worked out for those who
      employed her, as much as a sharp diplomatist triumphs in outwitting an astute antagonist.  
  It is said that when Perseus carried the hideous head of the Gorgon Medusa through the air,
      the gore which dripped from it as he passed over the desert of Libya turned into frightful
      serpents: so does the moral filth which the corruption of great cities distils, engender
      grovelling and venomous wretches like that old hag.  
  Well—she dressed herself in her best attire, and contemplated herself with satisfaction in a
      little mirror cracked all across.  
  Then, having partaken of a hearty breakfast, she sallied forth.  
  By means of a public conveyance she soon reached the vicinity of Markham Place.  
  She had never been in that neighbourhood before; and when she beheld the spacious mansion,
      with its heavy but imposing architecture, she muttered to herself, "She is well lodged—she is
      well lodged!"  
  The hag then strolled leisurely round Richard's miniature domain, debating within herself
      whether she should knock boldly at the front door and inquire for Miss Monroe, or wait in the
      neighbourhood to see if that young lady might chance to walk out alone.  
  The day was fine, though cold; and the hag accordingly resolved to abide by the latter
      alternative.  
  Perceiving a seat upon the summit of the hill, whereon stood the two trees, she opened the
      gate at the foot of the path which led to the top.  
  Then she toiled up the hill, and seated herself between the two ash trees—now denuded of
      their foliage.  
  Presently, as her eyes wandered hither and thither, they fell upon the
      inscriptions engraved on the stem of one of the trees. Thus they stood:—  Eugene. Dec.
       25, 1836. Eugene. May 17th, 1838.  
  
  The old woman marvelled what that name, twice inscribed, and those dates could mean.  
  But she did not trouble herself much with conjecture on that point: she had other business
      on hand, and was growing impatient because Ellen did not appear.  
  At length her penetrating eyes caught a glimpse of a female form approaching from the
      direction of the garden at the back of the mansion.  
  The hag watched that form attentively, and in a few moments exclaimed joyfully, "It is
      she!"  
  Ellen was indeed advancing up the hill. She had come forth for a short ramble; and the
      clearness of the day had prompted her to ascend the eminence which afforded so fine a view of
      the mighty metropolis at a little distance.  
  When she was near the top, she caught sight of a female seated upon the bench between the
      trees, and was about to retreat—fearful that her presence might be deemed a reproach for what
      was in fact an intrusion upon private property.  
  But, to her surprise, she observed the female beckoning familiarly to her; and she continued
      her way to the summit.  
  Then, with profound astonishment and no little annoyance, she recognised the old hag.  
  "What are you doing here?" demanded Ellen, hastily.  
  "Resting myself, as you see, miss," answered the harridan. "But how charming you look this
      morning! That black velvet bonnet sets off your beautiful complexion; and the fresh air has
      given a lovely glow to your cheeks."  
  "You have not uttered that compliment without a motive," said Ellen, vainly endeavouring to
      suppress a half-smile of satisfaction. "But you must not suppose that your flattery will make
      me forget the part which you played when Mr. Greenwood had me conveyed to his house somewhere
      in the country."  
  "My dear child, do not be angry with me on that account," said the old hag. "Mr. Greenwood
      thought that you would prefer me as your servant instead of a stranger."  
  "Or rather, he hired you to talk me over to his wishes—or, perhaps, because he knew that you
      would wink at any violence which he might use. But I outwitted you both," added Ellen,
      laughing.  
  "Ah! now I see that you have forgiven me, my child," cried the hag. "And when I behold your
      sweet lips, red as cherries—your lovely blue eyes, so soft and languishing—and that small
      round chin, with its charming dimple, I feel convinced——"  
  "Nay—you are determined to flatter me," interrupted Ellen; "but I shall not forgive you the
      more readily on that account."  
  "How well this pelisse becomes your beautiful figure, my child," said the hag, affecting not
      to notice Ellen's last observation.  
  "Cease this nonsense," cried Miss Monroe; "and tell me what brings you hither."  
  "To see you once more, my child."  
  "How did you discover my abode?"  
  "A pleasant question, forsooth!" ejaculated the hag. "Do you think that I am not well
      acquainted with all—yes,   all   that concerns you?" she added significantly.  
  "Alas! I am well aware that you know much—too much," said Ellen, with a profound sigh.  
  "Much!" repeated the hag. "I know   all  , I say,—even to the existence of the little
      one that will some day call you mother."  
  "Who told you that? Speak—who told you   that  ?" demanded Ellen, greatly excited.  
  "It cannot matter—since I know it," returned the hag: "it cannot matter."  
  "One question," said Ellen,—"and I will ask you no more. Was Mr. Greenwood your
      informant?"  
  "He was not," answered the hag.  
  "And now tell me, without circumlocution, what business has brought you hither—for that you
      came to meet with me I have no doubt."  
  "Sit down by me, my child," said the hag, "and listen while I speak to you."  
  "Nay—I can attend to you as well here," returned Ellen, laughing, as she leant against one
      of the trees—an attitude which revealed her tiny feet and delicate ankles.  
  "You seem to have no confidence in me," observed the hag; "and yet I have ever been your
      friend."  
  "Yes—you have helped me to my ruin," said Ellen, mournfully. "And yet I scarcely blame you
      for all that, because you only aided me to discover what I sought at the time—and that was
         bread at any sacrifice  . Well—go on, and delay not: I will listen to you, if only
      through motives of curiosity."  
  "My sweet child," said the harridan, endeavouring to twist her wrinkled face into as
      pleasing an expression as possible, "a strange thing has come to my knowledge. What would you
      think if I told you that a man of pure and stainless life, who is virgin of all sin,—a man who
      to a handsome exterior unites a brilliant intellect,—a man whose eloquence can excite the
      aristocracy as well as produce a profound impression upon the middle classes,—a man possessed
      of a fine fortune and a high position,—what would you think, I say, if I told you that such a
      man has become enamoured of you?"  
  "I should first wonder how such a phœnix of perfection came to select you as his
      intermediate," answered Ellen, with a smile, which displayed her brilliant teeth.  
  "A mere accident made me acquainted with his passion," said the hag. "But surely you would
      not scorn the advances of a man who would sacrifice every thing for you—who would consent to
      fall from his high place for one single hour of your love—who would lay his whole fortune at
      your feet as a proof of his sincerity."  
  such an idea ever enter his mind, must I not retain myself worthy of that
      repentant sentiment on his part?"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "You cherish a miserable delusion, my child," said the hag; "and I am surprised at your
      confidence in the good feelings of a man of whom you have already seen so much."  
  "Ah! there is a higher power that often sways the human heart," observed Ellen; and, as she
      spoke, her eyes were fixed upon the inscriptions on the tree, while her heart beat with
      emotions unintelligible to the old hag.  
  "You will then allow this man of whom I have spoken, and who has formed so enthusiastic an
      attachment towards you, to languish without a hope?" demanded the woman.  
  "Men do not die of love," said Ellen, with a smile.  
  "But he is rich—and he would enrich you," continued the old harridan: "he would place your
      father in so happy a position that the old man should not even experience a regret for the
      prosperity which he has lost."  
  "My father dwells with a friend, and is happy," observed Ellen.  
  "But he is dependant," exclaimed the old hag: "for you yourself once said to me, '  We are
       dependant upon one who cannot afford to maintain us in idleness  .' How happy would you
      be—for I know your heart—to be enabled to place your father in a state of independence!"  
  "Would he be happy did he know that he owed the revival of his prosperity to his daughter's
      infamy?"  
  "Did he divine whence came the bread that was purchased by your services to the statuary,
      the artist, the sculptor, and the photographer? You yourself assured me that you kept your
      avocations a profound secret."  
  "Were I inclined to sell myself for gold, Greenwood would become a liberal purchaser," said
      Ellen. "All your sophistry is vain. You cannot seduce me from that state of tranquil seclusion
      in which I now dwell."  
  the hag, who did not calculate upon so much firmness on the part of the young
      lady.  
  "Ah! think not that he is unknown," cried Ellen, a light breaking in upon her mind: "a man
      of pure and stainless life, virgin of all sin,—a man endowed with a handsome person, and a
      brilliant intellect,—a man whose eloquence acts as a spell upon all classes,—a man possessed
      of a large fortune and enjoying a high position,—such is your description! And this man must
      have seen me to love me! Now think you I cannot divine the name of your phœnix?"  
  "You suspect then, my child——"  
  "Nay—I have something more than mere suspicion in my mind," interrupted Ellen. "Oh! now I
      comprehend the motive of that apparent earnestness with which he implored me to reveal the
      secret sorrow that oppressed me! In a word, old woman," added the young lady, in a tone of
      superb contempt, "your phœnix is the immaculate rector of St. David's!"  
  "And do you not triumph in your conquest, Miss?" demanded the hag, irritated by Ellen's
      manner.  
  "Oh! yes," exclaimed the young lady, with a sort of good-humoured irony; "so much so, that I
      will meet him when and where you will."  
  "Are you serious?" inquired the hag, doubtfully.  
  "Did I ever jest when I agreed to accept the fine offers which you made me on past
      occasions?" asked Ellen.  
  "No: and you cannot have an object in jesting now," observed the old woman. "But when and
      where will you meet him who is enamoured of you?"  
  "You say that he will make any sacrifice to please me?"  
  "He will—he will."  
  "Then he cannot refuse the appointment which I am about to propose to you. On Monday evening
      next there is to be a masked ball at Drury Lane Theatre. At ten o'clock precisely I will be
      there, dressed as a Circassian slave, with a thick veil over my face. Let him be attired as a
      monk, so that he may be enabled to shroud his features with his cowl. We shall not fail to
      recognise each other."  
  "Again I ask if you are in earnest?" demanded the old woman, surprised at this singular
      arrangement.  
  "I was never more so," answered Ellen.  
  "But why cannot the appointment take place at my abode?" said the hag.  
  "Oh! fie—the immaculate rector in your dirty court in Golden Lane!" ejaculated Ellen.  
  "That court was once good enough for you, my child," muttered the old woman.  
  "We will not dispute upon that point," said the young lady. "If I am worth having, I am
      worth humouring; and I must test the sincerity of the attachment which your phœnix experiences
      for me, by making him seek me at a masked ball."  
  "Oh! the caprices of you fair ones!" ejaculated the hag. "Well, my child, I will undertake
      that it shall be as you desire."  
  "Next Monday evening at ten o'clock," cried Ellen; and with these words she tripped lightly
      down the hill in the direction of the mansion.  
  The old hag then took her departure by the path on the opposite side; and, as she went
      along, she chuckled at the success of her intrigue.  
  
  CHAPTER CXLIX.   THE MASQUERADE.  
  The evening of the masquerade arrived.  
  It is not our intention to enter into a long description of a scene the nature of which must
      be so well known to our readers.  
  Suffice it to say that at an early hour Old Drury was, within, a blaze of light. The pit had
      been boarded over so as to form a floor level with the stage, at the extremity of which the
      orchestra was placed. The spacious arena thus opened, soon wore a busy and interesting
      appearance, when the masques began to arrive; and the boxes were speedily filled with ladies
      and gentlemen who, wearing no fancy costumes, had thronged thither for the purpose of
      beholding, but not commingling with, the diversions of the masquerade.  
  To contemplate that blaze of female loveliness which adorned the boxes, one would imagine
      that all the most charming women of the metropolis had assembled there by common consent that
      night; and the traveller, who had visited foreign climes, must have been constrained to admit
      that no other city in the universe could produce such a brilliant congress.  
  For the fastidious elegancies of fashion, sprightliness of manners, sparkling discourse, and
      all the refinements of a consummate civilization, which are splendid substitutes for mere
      animal beauty, the ladies of Paris are unequalled;—but for female loveliness in all its
      glowing perfection—in all its most voluptuous expansion, London is the sovereign city that
      knows in this respect no rival.  
  In sooth, the scene was ravishing and gorgeous within Old Drury on the night of which we are
      writing.  
  The spacious floor was crowded with masques in the most varied and fanciful garbs.  
  There were Turks who had never uttered a "Bismillah," and Shepherdesses who had seen more of
      mutton upon their tables than ever they had in the fields;—Highlanders who had never been
      twenty miles north of London, and Princesses whose fathers were excellent aldermen or most
      conscientious tradesmen;—Generals without armies, and Flower-Girls whose gardens consisted of
      a pot of mignonette on the ledge of their bed-room windows;—Admirals whose nautical knowledge
      had been gleaned on board Gravesend steamers, and Heathen Goddesses who were devoted
      Christians;—Ancient Knights who had not even seen so much as the Eglintoun Tournament, and
      Witches whose only charms lay in their eyes;—and numbers, of both sexes, attired in
      fancy-dresses which were very fanciful indeed.  
  Then there was all the usual fun and frolic of a masquerade;—friends availing themselves of
      their masks and disguises to mystify each other,—witticism and repartee, which if not sharp
      nor pointed, still served the purpose of eliciting laughter,—and strange mistakes in respect
      to personal identity, which were more diverting than all.  
  There was also plenty of subdued whispering between youthful couples; for Love is as busy at
      masquerades as elsewhere.  
  formed a scene at once gay, exhilarating, and ravishing.  
  At about a quarter before ten o'clock, a masque, attired in the sombre garb of a Carmelite
      Friar, with his cowl drawn completely over his face, and a long rosary hanging from the rude
      cord which girt his waist, entered the theatre.  
  He cast a wistful glance, through the slight opening in his cowl, all around; and, not
      perceiving the person whom he sought, retired into the most obscure nook which he could find,
      but whence he could observe all that passed.  
  At five minutes to ten, a lady, habited as a Circassian slave, and wearing an ample white
      veil, so thick that it was impossible to obtain a glimpse of her countenance, alighted from a
      cab at the principal entrance of the theatre.  
  Lightly she tripped up the steps; but as she was about to enter the vestibule, her veil
      caught the buttons of a lounger's coat, and was drawn partly off her face.  
  She immediately re-adjusted it—but not before a gentleman, masked, and in the habit of a
      Greek Brigand, who was entering at the time, obtained a glimpse of her features.  
  "What? Ellen   here  !" murmured the Greek Brigand to himself: "I must not lose sight
      of her!"  
  Ellen did not however notice that she had been particularly observed; much less did she
      suspect that she was recognised.  
  But as she hastened up the great staircase, the Greek Brigand followed her closely.  
  Although her countenance was so completely concealed, her charming figure was nevertheless
      set off to infinite advantage by the dualma which she wore, and which, fitting close to her
      shape, reached down to her knees. Her ample trousers were tied just above the ankle where the
      graceful swell of the leg commenced; and her little feet were protected by red slippers.  
  The Brigand who had recognised her, and now watched her attentively, was tall, slender, well
      made, and of elegant deportment.  
  Ellen soon found herself in the midst of the busy scene, where her graceful form and
      becoming attire immediately attracted attention.  
  "Fair eastern lady," said an Ancient Knight in a buff jerkin and plumed tocque, "if thou
      hast lost the swain that should attend upon thee, accept of my protection until thou shalt
      find him."  
  "Thanks for thy courtesy, Sir Knight," answered Ellen, gaily: "I am come to confess to a
      holy father whom I see yonder."  
  "Wilt thou then abjure thine own creed, and embrace ours?" asked the Knight.  
  "Such is indeed my intention, Sir Knight," replied Ellen; and she darted away towards the
      Carmelite Friar whom she had espied in his nook.  
  The Ancient Knight mingled with a group of Generals and Heathen Goddesses, and did not offer
      to pester Ellen with any more of his attentions.  
  "Sweet girl," said Reginald Tracy (whom the reader has of course recognised in the Carmelite
      Friar), when Ellen joined him, "how can I sufficiently thank you for this condescension on
      your part?"  
  "I am fully recompensed by the attention you have shown to the little caprice which prompted
      me to choose this scene for the interview that you desired," answered Ellen.  
  Both spoke in a subdued tone—but not so low as to prevent the Greek Brigand, who was
      standing near, from overhearing every word they uttered.  
  "Mr. Tracy," continued Ellen, "why did you entrust your message of love to another? why
      could you not impart with your own lips that which you were anxious to communicate to me?"  
  "Dearest Ellen," answered the rector, "I dared not open my heart to you in person—I was
      compelled to do so by means of another."  
  "If your passion be an honourable one," said Ellen, "there was no need to feel shame in
      revealing it."  
  "My passion is most sincere, Ellen. I would die for you! Oh! from the first moment that I
      beheld you by your father's sick-bed, I felt myself drawn towards you by an irresistible
      influence; and each time that I have since seen you has only tended to rivet more firmly the
      chain which makes me your slave. Have I not given you an unquestionable proof of my sincerity
      by meeting you   here  ?"  
  "A proof of your desire to please me, no doubt," said Ellen. "But what proof have I that
      your passion is an honourable one? You speak of its sincerity—you avoid all allusion to the
      terms on which you would desire me to return it."  
  "What terms do you demand?" asked the rector. "Shall I lay my whole fortune at your feet?
      Shall I purchase a splendid house, with costly appointments, for you? In a word, what proof of
      my love do you require?"  
  "Are you speaking as a man who would make a settlement upon a wife, or as one who is
      endeavouring to arrange terms with a mistress?" demanded Ellen.  
  "My sweet girl," replied Reginald, "know you not that, throughout my career, I have from the
      pulpit denounced the practice of a man in holy orders marrying, and that I have more than once
      declared—solemnly declared—my intention of remaining single upon principle? You would not wish
      me to commit an inconsistency which might throw a suspicion upon my whole life?"  
  "Then, sir, by what right do you presume that I will compromise my fair fame for your sake,
      if you tremble to sacrifice your reputation for mine?" asked Ellen. "Is every compromise to be
      effected by poor woman, and shall man make no sacrifice for her? Are you vile, or base, or
      cowardly enough to ask me to desert home and friends to gratify your selfish passion, while
      you carefully shroud your weakness beneath the hypocritical cloak of a reputed sanctity? Was
      it to hear such language as this that I agreed to meet you? But know, sir, that you have
      greatly—oh! greatly mistaken   me  ! By the most unmanly—the most disgraceful means you
      endeavoured to wring from me, a few days ago, a secret which certain expressions of mine,
      incautiously uttered over what I conceived to be my father's death-bed, had perhaps made you
      more than half suspect. Those words, which escaped me in a moment of bitter anguish, you
      treasured up, and converted them into the text for a sermon which you preached me."  
  "Ellen," murmured the rector; "why these reproaches?"  
  shame? Do you think that you adopted an honourable means to discover it? When you
      addressed me in that saintly manner—a manner which I now know to have been that of a vile
      hypocrisy—I actually believed you to be sincere; for the time I fancied that a man of God was
      offering me consolation. Nevertheless, think you that my feelings were not wounded? But an
      accident made you acquainted with that truth which you vainly endeavoured to extort from me!
      And now you perhaps believe that I cannot read your heart. Oh! I can fathom its depths but too
      well. You cherish the idea that because I have been frail once, I am fair game for a
      licentious sportsman like you. You are wrong, sir—you are wrong. I never erred but once—but
      once, mark you;—and then not through passion—nor through love—nor in a moment of surprise. I
      erred deliberately—no matter why. The result was the child whom you have seen. But never,
      never will I err more—no, not even though tempted,   as I have been  , by the father of
      my child! You sent to me a messenger—the same filthy hag who pandered to my first, my only
      disgrace,—you sent her as your herald of love. Ah! sir, you must have already plunged into
      ways at variance with the sanctity of your character—or you could not have known   her  !
      I told her—as I now assure you—that I do not affect a virtue which I possess not;—but if I
      henceforth remain pure and chaste, it is because I am a mother—because I love my child—because
      I will keep myself worthy of the respect of   him   who is the father of that child,
      should God ever move his heart towards me. Say then that I am virtuous upon calculation—I care
      not: still I am virtuous!"  
  The individual in the garb of the Greek Bandit drew a pace or two nearer as these words met
      his ears.  
  Neither the rector nor Ellen observed that he was paying any attention to them: on the
      contrary, he appeared to be entirely occupied in contemplating the dancers from beneath his
      impervious mask.  
  "Ellen, what means all this?" asked Reginald: "are you angry with me? You alarm me!"  
  "Suffer me to proceed, that you may understand me fully," said Ellen. "You mercilessly
      sought to cover me with humiliation, when you rudely probed that wound in my heart, the
      existence of which an unguarded expression of mine had revealed to you. Your conduct was
      base—was cowardly; and, as a woman, I eagerly embraced the opportunity to avenge myself."  
  "To avenge yourself!" faltered Reginald, nearly sinking with terror as these words fell upon
      his ears.  
  "Yes—to avenge myself," repeated Ellen hastily. "When your messenger—that vile agent of
      crime—proposed to me that I should grant you an interview, I bethought myself of this ball
      which I had seen announced in the newspapers. It struck me that if I could induce you—you, the
      man of sanctity—to clothe yourself in the mummery of a mask and meet me at a scene which you
      and your fellow-ecclesiastics denounce as one worthy of Satan, I should hurl back with tenfold
      effect that deep, deep humiliation which you visited upon me. It was for this that I made the
      appointment here to-night—for this that I retired early to my chamber, and thence stole forth
      unknown to my father and my benefactor—for this that I now form one at an assembly which has
      no charms for me! My intention was to seize an opportunity to tear your disguise from you, and
      allow all present to behold amongst them the immaculate rector of Saint David's. But I will be
      more merciful to you than you were to me: I will not inflict upon you that last and most
      poignant humiliation!"  
  "My God! Miss Monroe, are you serious?" said the rector, deeply humbled; "or is this merely
      a portion of the pastime?"  
  "Does it seem sport to you?" asked Ellen: "if so, I will continue it, and wind it up with
      the scene which I had abandoned."  
  "For heaven's sake, do not expose me, Miss Monroe!" murmured Reginald, now writhing in agony
      at the turn which the matter had taken. "Let me depart—and forget that I ever dared to address
      you rudely."  
  "Yes—go," said Ellen: "you are punished sufficiently. You possess the secret of my frailty—I
      possess the secret of your hypocrisy: beware of the use you make of your knowledge of me, lest
      I retaliate by exposing you."  
  There was something very terrible in the lesson which that young woman gave the libidinous
      priest on this occasion; and he felt it in its full force.  
  Cowering within himself, he uttered not another word, but stole away, completely
      subdued—cruelly humiliated.  
  Ellen lingered for a few moments on the spot where she had so effectually chastised the
      insolent hypocrite; and then hastily retired.  
  The Greek Brigand made a movement as if he were about to follow her; but, yielding to a
      second thought, he stopped, murmuring, "By heavens! she is a noble creature!"  
  
  CHAPTER CL.   MRS. KENRICK.  
  The rector of Saint David's returned home a prey to the most unenviable feelings.  
  Rage—disappointment—humiliation conspired to make him mad.  
  The old hag had raised his hopes to the highest pitch; and at the moment when the cup of
      bliss seemed to approach his lips, it was rudely dashed away.  
  A woman had triumphed over him—mocked his passion—spurned his offers—read him a lesson of
      morality—taught him that proud man must not always domineer over feminine weakness.  
  Oh! it was too much for that haughty—that vain—that self-sufficient ecclesiastic to
      endure!  
  As he returned home in a hired cab, he threw from the window of the vehicle the Carmelite
      gown and cowl which he had worn; and bitterly did he reproach himself for his folly in having
      been seduced into the degradation of that masqued mummery.  
  Arrived at his own house, he rushed past the housekeeper who opened the door, and was
      hurrying up-stairs to the solitude of his chamber, when the voice of the old lady compelled
      him to pause.  
  "Mr. Tracy—Mr. Tracy," she exclaimed; "here is a note from Lady Harborough."  
  "Tell Lady Harborough to go to the devil, Mrs. Kenrick!" cried the rector, goaded almost to
      madness by this new proof of Cecilia's indiscretion.  
  The old housekeeper dropped the candle and the note, as if she were
      thunderstruck.  
  Was it possible that she had heard aright? could such an expression have emanated from the
      lips of her master—of that man whom the world idolized?  
  "What is the matter now, Mrs. Kenrick?" asked the rector, suddenly recovering his presence
      of mind, and perceiving the immense error into which his excited feelings had betrayed
      him.  
  "Nothing, sir—nothing," answered the housekeeper, as she re-lighted her candle by means of a
      lamp which was standing on the hall-table; "only I thought that something very terrible had
      occurred to annoy you."  
  "Yes—yes—I have indeed been grievously annoyed," said Reginald; "and you must forgive my
      hasty conduct. I was wrong—very wrong. Do not think anything more of it, Mrs. Kenrick. But did
      you not observe that Lady Harborough had sent a message——"  
  "A note, sir. Here it is."  
  And as the housekeeper handed her master the perfumed   billet  , she cast a
      scrutinizing glance upon his countenance.  
  He was as pale as death—his lips quivered—and his eyes had a wild expression.  
  "I am afraid, sir, that something very dreadful has happened to you," she observed timidly.
      "Shall I send for the physician?"  
  "No—no, Mrs. Kenrick: I shall be quite well in the morning. I have received a violent
      shock—the sudden communication of ill news—the death of a dear friend——"  
  "Ah! sir, I was convinced that all was not right," observed the housekeeper. "If you would
      follow my advice you would take something to compose you—to make you sleep well——"  
  "An excellent thought, Mrs. Kenrick! If it be not too late, I wish you would send and
      procure me a little laudanum: I will take a few drops to ensure a sound slumber."  
  "I will do so, sir," answered the housekeeper.  
  She then repaired to the kitchen, while Reginald hurried up to his own chamber to read Lady
      Cecilia's letter, the contents of which ran as follow:—  
  "Nearly a week has elapsed, dearest Reginald, and I have not seen you! neither have I heard
      from you. What is the meaning of this? Is it neglect, or extreme caution? At all events the
      interval which you enjoined for the cessation of my visits to you, has nearly expired; and my
      impatience will brook no longer delay. I must see you to-night! Precisely as the clock strikes
      twelve, I will be at your front-door, when you must admit me as on previous occasions—or I
      shall imagine that you are already wearied of your  
  "CECILIA."   
  "After all," said the rector, "the presence of Cecilia will in some degree console me for my
      disappointment of this evening! I cannot remain alone with my reflections—it drives me mad to
      think of what I am, and what I have been! And laudanum is a miserable resource for one who
      dreads a sleepless night: it peoples slumber with hideous phantoms. Yes—I will admit Cecilia
      at the appointed hour:—my housekeeper does not suspect me—my guilty conscience alone makes me
      think at times that she reads the secrets of my soul?"  
  The rector seated himself before the cheerful fire which burnt in the grate, and fell into a
      long train of voluptuous meditation.  
  He had become in so short a time a confirmed sensualist; and now that his long pent-up
      passions had broken loose, they never left him a moment of repose.  
  His reverie was interrupted by a knock at the door; and Mrs. Kenrick entered.  
  "Kate was fortunate enough to find a druggist's shop open, sir," she said, "and procured
      some laudanum. But pray be cautious how you use it."  
  "Never fear," returned the rector: "I may not avail myself of it at all—for I feel more
      composed now."  
  The housekeeper wished her master a good night's rest, and withdrew.  
  The rector then took a decanter of wine from a cupboard, and tossed off two glasses full,
      one immediately after the other.  
  The idea that Cecilia would shortly be there and the effects of the wine inflamed his blood,
      and brought back the colour to his cheeks.  
  Midnight soon sounded: the rector threw off his shoes, took a candle in his hand, and
      hastened down stairs.  
  He opened the front-door with the utmost caution; and a female, muffled in an ample cloak,
      darted into the hall.  
  "Cecilia?" whispered the rector.  
  "Dearest Reginald," answered the lady, in the same under tone.  
  They then stole noiselessly up stairs, and reached the rector's chamber without having
      scarcely awakened the faintest echo in the house.  
  The remainder of the night was passed by them in the intoxicating joys of illicit love.
      Locked in Cecilia's arms, the rector forgot the humiliation he had received at the hands of
      Ellen, and abandoned himself to those pleasures for which he risked so much!  
  It was still dark—though at a later hour in the morning than Cecilia had been previously in
      the habit of quitting the rector's house—when the guilty pair stole softly down stairs,
      without a light.  
  "Hasten, Cecilia," murmured the rector: "it is later than you imagine."  
  "My God!" whispered the lady: "I hear a step ascending!"  
  The rector listened for a moment, and then said in a faint tone, "Yes: we are lost!"  
  A light flashed on the wall a few steps beneath those on which they were standing: it was
      too late to retreat; and in another moment Mrs. Kenrick made her appearance on the stairs.  
  "What! Mr. Tracy?" ejaculated the housekeeper, her eyes glancing from the rector in his
      dressing-gown to the lady in her cloak.  
  Then the good woman stood motionless and silent—her tongue tied, and her feet rooted to the
      spot, with astonishment.  
  Lady Cecilia drew her veil hastily over her countenance; but not before Mrs. Kenrick had
      recognised her.  
  A thousand ideas passed rapidly through the rector's brain during the two or three moments
      that succeeded this encounter.  
  At first he thought of inventing some excuse for his awkward situation;—next he felt
      inclined to spring upon his old housekeeper and strangle her;—then he conceived the desperate
      idea of rushing back to his room and blowing his brains out.  
  "Mrs. Kenrick," at length he exclaimed, "I hope you will say nothing of this."  
  The housekeeper made no reply to her master; but, turning a contemptuous glance
      upon the lady, said, "Madam, allow me to conduct you to the front door."  
  Cecilia followed her mechanically; and Reginald rushed up the stairs to his room, a prey to
      emotions more readily conceived than described.  
  The housekeeper preceded Lady Cecilia in silence, and opened the front door.  
  "My dear Mrs. Kenrick," said the frail patrician, who had now nearly recovered her presence
      of mind, "I hope you will take no notice of this unpleasant discovery."  
  "I shall remain silent, madam," answered the housekeeper; "but through no respect for you. I
      however value the reputation of a master whom I have served for many years, too much to be the
      means of ruining him."  
  She then closed the door unceremoniously, and, seating herself on one of the mahogany
      benches in the hall, burst into tears.  
  That good woman loved her master with a maternal affection; and she was shocked at this
      dread confirmation of the faint suspicions which she had already entertained, and which had so
      sorely afflicted her.  
  "It is then true!" she thought within herself. "He has fallen! He is a living, breathing
      falsehood. His eloquence is a mere talent, and not the spontaneous outpouring of holy
      conviction! The world adores an idle delusion—worships a vain phantom. Oh! what a discovery is
      this! How can I ever respect him more? how can I ever talk with others of his virtues again?
      And yet he may repent—oh! God grant that he may! Yes—he must repent: he must again become the
      great, the good man he once was! It behoves me, then, to shield his guilt:—at the same time
      all temptation should be removed from his presence. Ah! now I bethink me that he has cast
      wistful eyes upon that poor girl whom he has taken into the establishment. I must remove her:
      yes—I will remove her, upon my own authority. He will thank me hereafter for my prudence."  
  Thus did the good woman reason within herself.  
  When she had somewhat recovered from the first shock which the unpleasant discovery of her
      master's criminality had produced upon her, she repaired to her domestic avocations.  
  Kate was already in the kitchen, occupied with her usual duties.  
  "Katherine, my dear child," said Mrs. Kenrick, "I am going to give you my advice—or rather
      to propose to you a plan which I have formed—relative to you——"  
  "To me, ma'am?" exclaimed the young maiden, desisting from her employment, and preparing to
      listen with attention.  
  "Yes, my dear girl," continued the housekeeper; "and when I tell you that it is for your
      good—entirely for your good—you would thank me——"  
  "Oh! I do, ma'am—I thank you in advance," said Kate; "for I have already experienced too
      much kindness at your hands not to feel convinced that all you propose is for my good."  
  "Well, then, my dear—without giving you any reasons for my present conduct—I am anxious that
      you should leave this house——"  
  "Leave, ma'am?" cried Kate, astonished at this unexpected announcement.  
  "Yes, Katherine: you must leave this house," proceeded Mrs. Kenrick. "But think not that you
      will be unprovided for. I have a sister who resides a few miles from London; and to her care I
      shall recommend you. She will be a mother to you."  
  "But why would you remove me from the roof of my benefactor?" asked Kate: "why would you
      send me away from London, where my only relations on the face of the earth reside?" she added,
      bursting into tears; for she thought of her poor persecuted cousin the hump-back.  
  "Do not ask me, my good child," returned Mrs. Kenrick: "my reasons are of a nature which
      cannot be communicated to you. And yet—if you knew them, and could rightly understand them—you
      would not object——"  
  "Alas! ma'am, I am afraid that I understand them but too well," interrupted the girl: "the
      executioner's niece brings discredit upon the house of her benefactor."  
  "Oh! no—no," exclaimed the good-natured housekeeper; "do not entertain such an idea! Not for
      worlds would I have you labour under such an error. You know I would not tell a falsehood; and
      I declare most solemnly that you have totally misunderstood me and my motives."  
  There was an earnestness in the way in which Mrs. Kenrick spoke that immediately removed
      from Katherine's mind the suspicion she had entertained.  
  "Why should you send the poor girl away, Mrs. Kenrick?" said the footman, now suddenly
      emerging from the pantry, which joined the kitchen.  
  "Have you overheard our conversation, then, Thomas?" exclaimed Mrs. Kenrick, angrily.  
  "I couldn't very well avoid it," answered the footman, "since I was in there all the
      time."  
  "It would have been more discreet on your part to have let us know that you were there, when
      you heard a private conversation begin," remarked the housekeeper.  
  "How should I know the conversation was private?" exclaimed Thomas. "I suppose you're
      jealous of the girl, and want to get rid of her."  
  "You must value your place very little by speaking to me in this way," said Mrs. Kenrick.
      "However, I scorn your base allusions. And you, my dear," she continued, now addressing
      herself to Katherine, "look upon me as your friend—your very sincere friend. What I am doing
      is for your good: to-day I will write to my sister—and to-morrow you shall, proceed to her
      abode."  
  The housekeeper then resumed her avocations with the complacency of one conscious of having
      performed a duty.  
  "Thomas," she said, after a pause, "go up and inquire if your master will have breakfast
      served in his own chamber, or in the parlour."  
  The footman hastened to obey this order.  
  "Master says he is very unwell, and desires no breakfast at all," was the information which
      the man gave on his return to the kitchen.  
  The housekeeper made no reply: she was however pleased when she reflected that the rector
      felt his situation—a state of mind which she hoped would lead to complete repentance and
      reform.  
  The morning passed: the afternoon arrived: and still Reginald Tracy kept his room.  
  The housekeeper sent the footman up to ask if he required any thing.  
  "Master spoke to me without opening the door, and seemed by his tone of voice to
      be very unwell."  
  Again the housekeeper remained silent, more convinced than before that contrition was
      working its good effects with her master.  
  Hour after hour passed; the sun went down; and darkness once more drew its veil over the
      mighty city.  
  Mrs. Kenrick again sent up Thomas with the same inquiry as before.  
  The servant returned to the kitchen with a letter in his hand.  
  "This time master opened the door," he said; "and gave me this letter to take up to Mr.
      Markham at Holloway. But I shall take the omnibus there and back."  
  Thomas then departed to execute his commission.  
  Shortly after he was gone, the bell of the rector's room rang.  
  Mrs. Kenrick hastened to answer it.  
  She found Mr. Tracy sitting in a musing attitude before the fire in his bed-room.  
  "My dear Mrs. Kenrick," he said, "I wish to have some conversation with you—I need scarcely
      now explain upon what subject. I have sent Thomas out of the way with an excuse: do you get
      rid of Katherine for an hour; I am faint—and require refreshment; and I will take my tea with
      you in the kitchen."  
  "In the kitchen, sir!" exclaimed the housekeeper, in surprise.  
  "Yes—if you will permit me," answered the rector: "I can then converse with you at the same
      time."  
  Mrs. Kenrick left the room to execute her master's wishes; and, as she descended the stairs,
      she thought within herself, "I am right! he has repented: he will become the virtuous and
      upright man he once was!"  
  And the good woman experienced a pleasure as sincere as if any one had announced to her that
      she was entitled to a princely fortune.  
  To send Katherine out of the way for an hour was no difficult matter. The old housekeeper
      gave her leave to repair to Saint Giles's to visit her relatives; and the young girl, thinking
      that her uncle might repent of his recent harshness towards her, now that she was no longer
      dependant upon him, gladly availed herself of this permission.  
  Katherine accordingly proceeded to Saint Giles's; and the moment she had left the house Mrs.
      Kenrick spread the kitchen table with the tea-things.  
  
  CHAPTER CLI.   A MYSTERIOUS DEED.  
  Katherine tripped lightly along towards Saint Giles's; but as she drew near her uncle's
      door, she relaxed her speed, and her heart grew somewhat heavy.  
  She was afraid of experiencing an unkind reception.  
  It was, therefore, with a pleasure the more lively as it was unexpected, that the poor girl
      found herself welcomed by a smile on the part of her dreaded relative.  
  "Come in, Kate," said he, when he perceived his niece; "I felt myself dull and lonely, and
      was just thinking of you as you knocked at the door. I'm almost sorry that I ever parted with
      you; but as you're now in a place that may do you good I shall not interfere with you."  
  "I am very much obliged to you for thinking so kindly of me, uncle," said Kate, wiping away
      a tear, as she followed Smithers into the little parlour, which, somehow or another, did not
      look so neat as it had been wont to do in her time.  
  "I can't help thinking of you now and then, Kate," continued Smithers. "But, I say," he
      added abruptly, "I hope you've forgotten all about the manner in which we parted t'other
      day?"  
  "Oh! indeed I have, uncle," answered the girl, more and more astonished at this unusual
      urbanity of manner.  
  "I am not happy—I'm not comfortable in my mind, somehow," said Smithers, after a short
      pause. "Since the night before last I haven't been myself."  
  "What ails you?" asked Kate, kindly.  
  "I think my last hour's drawing nigh, Kate," returned the public executioner, sinking his
      voice to a low and mysterious whisper; but, at the same time, his countenance grew deadly
      pale, and he cast a shuddering look around him.  
  "You are low-spirited, uncle—that's all," said Kate, surveying him attentively—for his
      peculiarity of manner alarmed her.  
  "No—that's not it, Kate," continued the executioner; then, drawing his chair closer towards
      that on which his niece was seated, he added, "I have had my warning."  
  "Your warning, uncle! What mean you?"  
  "I mean what I say, Kate," proceeded Smithers, in a tone of deep dejection: "I have had my
      warning; and I s'pose it will come three times."  
  "Uncle—dear uncle, I cannot understand you. You must be unwell. Will you have medical
      advice? Say—shall I fetch a physician?"  
  "Don't be silly, Kate: there's nothink the matter with my body;—it's the mind. But I'll tell
      you what it is," continued Smithers, after a few moments of profound reflection. "It was the
      night before last. I had been practising—you know how——"  
  "Yes—yes, uncle," said Katherine, hastily.  
  "And it was close upon midnight, when I thought I would go to bed. Well—I undressed myself,
      and as there was only a little bit of candle left, I didn't blow the light out, but put the
      candlestick into the fire-place. I then got into bed. In a very few minutes I fell into a sort
      of doze—more asleep than awake though, because I dreamt of the man that I hanged yesterday
      week. I didn't, however, sleep very long; for I woke with a start just as Saint Giles's was a
      striking twelve. The light was flickering in the candlestick, for it was just dying away. You
      know how a candle burnt down to the socket flares at one moment, and then seems quite dead the
      next, but revives again immediately afterwards?"  
  "Yes, uncle," answered Katherine; "and I have often thought that in the silent and solemn
      midnight it is an awful thing to see."  
  fixed in the direction of the puppet; and, as sure as you are sitting there, Kate,
         another face   looked at me over its shoulder!"  
  "Oh! my dear uncle, it was the imagination," said the young girl, casting an involuntary
      glance of timidity around.  
  "Is a man like me one of the sort to be deluded by the imagination?" asked Smithers,
      somewhat contemptuously. "Haven't I been too long in a certain way to have any foolish fears
      of that sort?"  
  "But when we are unwell, uncle, the bravest of us may perceive strange visions, which are
      nothing more than the sport of the imagination," urged Kate.  
  "I tell you this had nothing to do with the imagination," persisted the executioner. "I saw
         another face   as plain as I see yours now; and—more than that—its glassy eyes were
      fixed upon me in a manner which I shall never forget. It was a warning—I know it was."  
  Kate made no reply: she saw the inutility of arguing with her uncle upon the subject; and
      she was afraid of provoking his irritable temper by contending against his obstinacy.  
  "But we won't talk any more about it, Kate," said the executioner, after a pause. "I know
      how to take it; and it doesn't frighten me; it only makes me dull. It hasn't prevented me from
      sleeping in my old quarters; nor will it, if I can help it. But you want to be off—I see you
      are getting fidgetty."  
  "I only received permission to remain out one hour," answered Kate. "Is my cousin at
      home?"  
  "The young vagabond!" ejaculated the executioner, whose irritability this question had
      aroused in spite of the depression of spirits under which he laboured; for he could not forget
      the unwearied repugnance which Gibbet manifested towards the paternal avocations:—"the young
      vagabond! he is never at home now of an evening."  
  "Never at home of an evening!" exclaimed Kate, surprised at this information.  
  "No," continued the executioner; "and at first I thought he went to see you."  
  "He can only visit me on Sunday evenings," observed the young maiden.  
  "So he told me yesterday. Howsumever, he goes out regular at dusk, and never comes back till
      between nine and ten—sometimes later."  
  "Then I am not likely to see him this evening?" exclaimed Kate, in a tone of
      disappointment.  
  "That you are not," replied the executioner. "But I must put a stop to these rovings on his
      part."  
  "Oh! pray be kind to him, uncle," said Katherine, rising to depart.  
  "Kind indeed!" grumbled the man, some of his old surliness returning.  
  Katherine then took leave of her uncle, and hurried towards Mr. Tracy's residence.  
  She reached her destination as the clock struck nine, and entered the house as usual, by the
      back way.  
  She proceeded to the kitchen, where, to her surprise, she observed Mrs. Kenrick sitting in
      her arm-chair, but apparently fast asleep. The old housekeeper's arms reposed upon the table,
      and formed a support for her head which had fallen forwards.  
  "Strange!" thought Katherine; "this is the first time I have known her sleep thus."  
  The young maiden moved lightly about the kitchen, while she threw off her bonnet and cloak,
      for fear of awaking the housekeeper.  
  Then she sate down near the fire, and fell into a profound reverie concerning the strange
      tale which her uncle had told her.  
  Presently it struck her that she did not hear the housekeeper breathe; and an awful
      suspicion rushed like a torrent into her mind.  
  For some moments she sate, motionless and almost breathless, in her chair, with her eyes
      fixed upon the inclined form of the housekeeper.  
  "My God!" at length Kate exclaimed; "she does not breathe—she does not move;—and her
      hands—oh! how pale they are!"  
  Then, overcoming her terror, the young maiden bent down her head so as to obtain a glimpse
      of Mrs. Kenrick's countenance.  
  "Oh! heavens—she is dead—she is dead!" cried the horror-struck girl, as her eyes encountered
      a livid and ghastly face instead of the healthy and good-humoured one which was familiar to
      her.  
  And Katherine sank back in her seat, overcome with grief and terror.  
  Suddenly the thought struck her that, after all, the housekeeper might only be in a fit.  
  Blaming herself for the delay which her fears had occasioned ere she administered succour,
      Kate hastened to raise the old lady's head.  
  But she let it fall again when she had obtained another glance of that ghastly
      countenance;—for the eyes were fixed and glazed—the under jaw had fallen—and the swollen
      tongue was lolling, dark and livid, out of the mouth.  
  Then Kate rushed into the yard, screaming for help.  
  The rector's groom (who also acted as coachman) was in the stable adjoining; and he
      immediately hastened to the spot.  
  "What is the matter?" he demanded, alarmed by the wildness of Katherine's manner and the
      piercing agony of her cries.  
  "Mrs. Kenrick is dead!" replied Katherine, sobbing bitterly.  
  "Dead!" ejaculated the man; and he instantly rushed into the kitchen.  
  In a few moments afterwards the rector made his appearance, and inquired the cause of the
      screams which had alarmed him.  
  "Mrs. Kenrick is dead, sir," said the groom.  
  Katherine had flung herself into a chair, and was giving full vent to her grief for the loss
      of her benefactress.  
  "Dead!" cried the rector. "No—let us hope not. Run for the nearest surgeon—it may only be a
      fit!"  
  "I'm afraid it's too late, sir," said the groom, who had now raised the housekeeper from her
      procumbent posture, and laid her back in the chair.  
  "Who knows? Run—run," exclaimed the rector impatiently.  
  The groom instantly departed; and during his short absence the rector was most assiduous in
      bathing the housekeeper's forehead with vinegar and water, and chafing her hands between his
      own.  
  In a few minutes the groom returned, accompanied by a surgeon; and the rector was found in
      the midst of his vain attentions.  
  words were decisive, as he said, "All human aid is vain, sir; and those
      appearances are most suspicious."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "What do you mean?" demanded Reginald.  
  "That your servant is poisoned," replied the surgeon.  
  "Poisoned!" exclaimed the rector. "Oh! no—you must mistake. She would not take poison
      herself, and I do not believe she has an enemy on the face of the earth."  
  "Nevertheless, Mr. Tracy," said the surgeon positively, "she is poisoned."  
  At these words Kate's sobs became more convulsive.  
  "But is it too late?" cried the rector: "can nothing be done? Is she past recovery?"  
  "Past all human succour, I repeat."  
  "My poor servant—my faithful friend," exclaimed Reginald Tracy, burying his face in his
      hands: "Oh! what could have induced her to commit suicide?"  
  "Suicide!" echoed Katherine, starting from her seat, and coming forward: "Oh! no, sir—do not
      wrong her memory thus! She was too good—too pious—too much bent upon the mercy of her
      Redeemer, to commit such a crime."  
  "Alas! suicide it must have been, my poor girl," said the rector; "for who could have
      administered poison to so harmless, so charitable, so humane a creature? Some secret grief,
      perhaps——"  
  At this moment Thomas returned from his mission to Markham Place. The poor fellow was deeply
      affected when the dreadful spectacle in the kitchen met his eyes, and when the few particulars
      yet known concerning the death of the housekeeper, or rather the first discovery of her
      death—were communicated to him.  
  "I never shall forgive myself as long as I live," exclaimed Thomas, "for having spoken cross
      to her, poor lady, this morning."  
  "Spoken cross to her!" cried the rector.  
  "Yes, sir," answered the man; "I said something to her—but I forget exactly what—because she
      told Katherine that she should send her away from London."  
  "Send Katherine away!" said Reginald, in unfeigned surprise.  
  "Yes, sir; and because I saw the girl didn't like it, I took her part against Mrs.
      Kenrick; and I'm now heartily sorry for it," rejoined Thomas, wiping away an honest tear.  
  "Young woman," said the surgeon, who had been attentively examining Katherine for some
      moments, "did you not visit my shop last evening?"  
  "I, sir!" exclaimed the young girl, who was too deeply absorbed in grief at the death of her
      benefactress to have her ideas very clearly distributed in the proper cells of her brain.  
  "Yes," continued the surgeon: "the more I look at you, the more I am convinced you came last
      night to my establishment and purchased a small phial of laudanum."  
  "Oh! yes—I remember, sir," said Katherine: "Mrs. Kenrick sent me for it, and told me that it
      was for my master."  
  The surgeon threw an inquiring glance towards Reginald.  
  "For me!" ejaculated the rector.  
  "So Mrs. Kenrick said, sir," returned Katherine: "and the moment I brought it in, she went
      up stairs with it."  
  "You can in one moment set at rest that point, sir," said the surgeon, with another glance
      of inquiry towards the rector.  
  "The laudanum was not for me," answered Mr. Tracy, calmly: "nor did I order my poor
      housekeeper to obtain any."  
  "O Katherine!" ejaculated Thomas; "surely—surely, you have not done this dreadful deed!"  
  "I——a murderess!" almost shrieked the poor girl: "Oh! no—no. God forbid!"  
  And she clasped her hands together.  
  The surgeon shook his head mysteriously.  
  "Merciful heavens!" exclaimed the rector, who was evidently excited to a painful degree,
      "you do not suspect—you cannot suppose—you do not—cannot imagine that—this young person——"  
  "I regret to state that the matter is to my mind most suspicious," observed the surgeon,
      with true professional calmness. "This morning the housekeeper informs that young person she
      must leave your establishment——"  
  "But, according to your own admission, the laudanum was purchased last night," interrupted
      the rector.  
  "Your humanity in pleading on behalf of that young woman does honour to your heart, Mr.
      Tracy," said the surgeon; "but was it not likely that she knew   yesterday   of some
      circumstance which would induce the housekeeper to give her warning   to-day  ?
      and——"  
  "Oh! my God!" cried the rector, striking his forehead forcibly with the open palm of his
      right hand.  
  "To a virtuous mind like yours I know that such a suspicion must be abhorrent," said the
      surgeon.  
  He then whispered a few words to the groom.  
  The groom immediately went out.  
  "Mr. Tracy—sir—you cannot surely entertain a suspicion against me!" cried Katherine, in a
      tone of the most piercing anguish. "Oh! that poor creature was my benefactress; and I would
      sooner have died myself than have done her wrong!"  
  "I believe you," exclaimed the rector,—"believe you from the bottom of my heart!"  
  "Thank you, Mr. Tracy," cried the poor girl, falling upon her knees before him, and grasping
      his hands convulsively in her own.  
  "You are too good—too generous," muttered the surgeon. "Be not deluded by that tragic
      acting. At all events I must do my duty."  
  "What do you mean?" cried the rector. "You cannot say that suspicion attaches itself to this
      young girl. I would stake my existence upon her innocence!" he added emphatically.  
  "You know not human nature as I know it," returned the surgeon coolly.  
  At this moment the groom returned, followed by a police-officer.  
  "A person has met with her death in a most mysterious manner," said the surgeon; "and strong
      suspicions point towards that young female."  
  Then followed one of those heart-rending scenes which defy the powers of the most graphic
      pen to delineate.  
  Amidst the wildest screams—and with cries of despair which pierced even to the stoic heart
      of the surgeon, who had acted in a manner which he had deemed merely consistent with his duty,
      the unhappy girl was led away in the custody of the officer.  
  "My God! who would have thought that it would have come to this?" exclaimed Reginald Tracy,
      as he precipitated himself from the kitchen.  
  "The surgeon is right," observed Thomas to the groom; "master is too good a man to believe
      in guilt of so black a nature."  
  
  CHAPTER CLII.   THE DEATH BED.  
  Early on the morning which succeeded the arrest of Katharine Wilmot, Mr. Gregory paid a
      visit to Markham Place.  
  The moment he entered the room where Richard received him, our hero observed that some deep
      affliction weighed upon the mind of his friend.  
  "Mr. Markham," said the latter, in a tone of profound anguish, "I am come to ask you a
      favour—and you will not refuse the last request of a dying girl."  
  "My dear sir—what do you mean?" exclaimed Richard. "Surely your daughter——"  
  "Mary-Anne will not long remain in this world of trouble," interrupted Mr. Gregory,
      solemnly. "Hers will soon be the common lot of mortals—perhaps to-day, perhaps to-morrow! She
      must die soon—God will change her countenance and take her unto himself. Oh! where shall I
      find consolation?"  
  "Consolation is to be found in the conviction that the earth is no abiding place," answered
      Markham; "and that there is a world beyond."  
  "Yes, truly," said the afflicted father. "We stand upon the border of an ocean   which has
       but one shore  , and whose heavings beyond are infinite and eternal."  
  There was a pause, during which Mr. Gregory was wrapped up in painful reflections.  
  "Come," said he, at length breaking that solemn silence, and taking Richard's hand; "you
      will not refuse to go with me to the death-chamber of my daughter? You will not offend against
      the delicacy of that devotion which you owe to   another  ; for   she   herself is
      also there."  
  Richard gazed at Mr. Gregory in astonishment as he uttered these words.  
  "Yes, my young friend," continued the wretched father; "within the last four and twenty
      hours, Mary-Anne and I have had many explanations. By a strange coincidence, it was at the
      abode of Count Alteroni that Mary-Anne passed a few days at the commencement of last month,
      and to which visit I alluded the last time I saw you, but without particularising names. I did
      not then know that you were even acquainted with the Alteroni family—much less could I suspect
      that your affections were fixed upon the Lady Isabella."  
  "And your daughter and Isabella are acquainted?" ejaculated Markham, more and more surprised
      at what he heard.  
  "They are friends—and at this moment the Lady Isabella is by the bed-side of Mary-Anne. It
      seems that the young maidens made confidants of each other, during my daughter's visit to the
      Count's mansion; and they then discovered that they both loved the same individual."  
  "How strange that they should have thus met!" cried Markham.  
  "Then was it," continued Mr. Gregory, "that my daughter learnt how hopeless was her own
      passion! Oh! I need not wonder if she returned home heart-broken and dying! But your Isabella,
      Richard, is an angel of goodness, virtue, and beauty!"  
  "She is worthy of the loftiest destinies!" said Markham enthusiastically.  
  "She was present when my daughter poured forth her soul into my bosom," resumed Mr. Gregory;
      "and Mary-Anne was guilty of no breach of confidence in revealing to me the love which existed
      between the Signora and yourself. And Isabella, with the most becoming modesty, confirmed the
      truth of Mary-Anne's recital. But your secret, Mr. Markham, remains locked up in my breast.
      You are too honourable and the Lady Isabella is too pure-minded to act in opposition to the
      will of her father: but God grant that events may prove favourable to you, and that you may be
      happily united!"  
  Richard pressed the hand of his respected friend in token of gratitude for this kind
      wish.  
  "And now you cannot hesitate to take a last farewell of my daughter," said Mr. Gregory; "for
      all danger of contagion from her malady has passed."  
  Markham instantly prepared himself to accompany the unhappy parent.  
  Few were the words that passed between them as they proceeded to the dwelling which was the
      abode of sorrow.  
  On their arrival Markham was shown into the drawing-room for a short time; and then the
      nurse came to introduce him into the sick-chamber.  
  The room was nearly dark; the curtains of the bed were close drawn; and thus the dying girl
      was completely concealed from our hero.  
  But near the foot of the bed was standing a beauteous form, whose symmetrical shape Markham
      could not fail to recognise.  
  Isabella extended her hand towards him: he pressed it in silence to his lips.  
  Mary-Anne had heard his footsteps; and she also gave him her hand between the folds of the
      curtains.  
  "Sit down by the bed-side, Richard," whispered Isabella: "our poor friend is anxious to
      speak to you."  
  And Isabella wept—and Richard also wept; for those noble-minded beings could not know,
      without the liveliest emotion, that one so sweet, so innocent, and so youthful, was stretched
      upon the bed from which she was destined never to rise again.  
  Markham seated himself by the side of the bed; and Isabella was about to withdraw.  
  "Stay with us, my dear friend," said Mary-Anne, in a plaintive but silver tone of voice,
      which touched a chord of sympathy that vibrated to their very souls.  
  Alas! that dulcet voice could not move the tuneless ear of Death!  
  Isabella obeyed her friend's wish in silence.  
  "This is kind of you—very kind," continued Mary-Anne, after a brief pause, and now evidently
      addressing herself to Richard. "I longed to speak to you once again before I left this earthly
      scene for ever; and that angel who loves you, and whom you love, earnestly implored my father
      to procure for me that last consolation. And now that you are both here together—you and that
      angel, by my bed-side,—I may be allowed to tell you, Richard, how fondly—how devotedly I have
      loved you; and I know you to be the noble, the enduring, the patient, the high-minded, and the
      honourable being I always believed you to be. Oh! how rejoiced I am that you have not loved me
      in return; for I should not like to die and leave behind me one who had loved me as tenderly
      as I had loved him."  
  "You will not die—you will recover!" exclaimed Markham, deeply affected, while Isabella's
      ill-suppressed sobs fell upon his ears. "Yes—yes—you will recover, to bless your father and
      brothers, and to make   us  , who are your friends, happy! It is impossible that Death
      can covet one so young, so innocent, and so beautiful——"  
  "Beautiful!" cried Mary-Anne, with a bitterness of accent which surprised our hero, and
      which served to elicit a fresh burst of sorrow from the sympathising bosom of Isabella:
      "beautiful—no, not now!"  
  Then there was another solemn pause.  
  "Yes—I shall die; but you will be happy," resumed Mary-Anne, again breaking silence.
      "Something assures me that providence will not blight the love which exists between Isabella
      and yourself—as it has seen fit to blight mine! Such is my presentiment; and the presentiments
      of the dying are often strangely prophetic of the future truth. Oh!" continued the young
      maiden, in a tone of excitement, "brilliant destinies await you, Richard! All your enduring
      patience, your resignation under the oppression of foul wrong, will meet with a glorious
      reward. Yes—for I know all:—that angel Isabella has kept no secret from me. She is a Princess,
      Richard; and by your union with her, you yourself will become one of the greatest Princes in
      Europe! Her father, too, shall succeed to his just rights; and then, Richard, then—" she said,
      with a sort of holy enthusiasm and sybilline fervour,—"  then   how small will be the
      distance between yourself and the Castelcicalan throne!"  
  which was conveyed by the fervent language of the dying girl.  
  "Oh! do not think my words are of vain import," continued Mary-Anne, in the same tone of
      inspiration. "I speak not of my own accord—something within me dictates all I now say! Yes—you
      shall be happy with each other; all obstacles shall vanish from the paths of your felicity;
      and when, in your sovereign palace of Montoni, you shall in future years retrospect over all
      you have seen and all you have passed through, forget not the dying girl who predicted for you
      all the happiness which you will then enjoy!"  
  "Forget you!" exclaimed Richard and Isabella in the same breath; "never—never!"  
  And the tears streamed down their cheeks.  
  "No—never forget me," said Mary-Anne; "for if it be allowed to the spirits of the departed
      to hover round the dwellings of those whom they loved and have left in this world, then will I
      be as a guardian angel unto you—and I shall contemplate your happiness with joy!"  
  "Oh! speak not thus surely of approaching death," exclaimed Richard. "Who knows that your
      eyes may not again behold the light!"  
  "My eyes!" repeated the invalid, with an evident shudder. "But for what could I live?"
      demanded the young maiden: "what attractions could life now offer to me?"  
  "You are young," returned Markham: "and hope and youth are inseparable. You can mingle with
      society,—you can appear in the great world—a world that will be proud of you——"  
  "Oh! Richard, Richard," murmured the soft tones of Isabella; "you know not what you
      say!"  
  At the same time that the Signora thus spoke in a low whisper, deep and convulsive sobs
      emanated from behind the curtains.  
  "Pardon me, Mary-Anne," said Richard, not comprehending the meaning of Isabella's words; "I
      have probably touched a chord——"  
  "Oh! I do not blame you," said Miss Gregory; "but my father ought to have told you all!"  
  "All!" echoed Richard. "What fresh misfortune could he have communicated?"  
  "Did he not tell you that I had been attacked with a grievous malady? that——"  
  "I remember! He spoke of a dangerous malady which had assailed you; and he remarked that all
      fear of contagion was now past. But I was so occupied at the time with the afflicting
      intelligence of your severe illness—so surprised, too, when I learnt that Isabella was here
      with you,—that I paid but little attention to that observation."  
  "Alas!" said Mary-Anne, in a faint and deeply-melancholy tone, "I have been assailed by a
      horrible malady—a malady which leaves its fatal marks behind, as if the countenance had been
      seared with red-hot iron—which disfigures the lineaments of the human face—eats into the
      flesh—and—and——"  
  "The small-pox!" cried Markham with a shudder.  
  "The small-pox," repeated Mary-Anne. "But you need not be alarmed: all danger of infection
      or contagion is now past—or I should not have sent to Isabella to come to me yesterday."  
  "I am not afraid," answered our hero: "I shuddered on your account. And even if there were
      any danger," he added, "I should not fly from it, if my presence be a consolation to you."  
  "You now understand," said the dying girl, "the reason why I could not hope for happiness in
      this world, even if I were to recover from my present illness,—and why death will be
      preferable to existence in a state of sorrow. How could I grope about in darkness, where I
      have been accustomed to feast my eyes with the beauties of nature and the wonderful fabrics
      raised by men? How could I consent to linger on in blindness in a world where there is so much
      to admire?"  
  "Blindness!" echoed our hero: "impossible! You cannot mean what you say!"  
  "Alas! it were a folly to jest upon one's death-bed," returned the young lady, with a deep
      sigh. "What I said ere now was the truth. The malady made giant strides to hurry me to the
      tomb: never had the physicians before known its ravages to proceed with such frightful
      celerity. It has left its traces upon my countenance—and it has deprived me of the blessing of
      sight. Oh! now I am hideous—a monster,—I know, I feel that I am,—revolting, disgusting,"
      continued Mary-Anne, bitterly; "and not for worlds would I allow you to behold that face which
      once possessed some attraction."  
  "The marks left by the scourge that has visited you will gradually become less apparent,"
      said Richard, deeply afflicted by the tone, the manner, and the communications of the invalid;
      "and probably the eye-lids are but closed for a time, and can be opened again by the skill of
      a surgeon."  
  "Never—never!" cried Mary-Anne, convulsively; and, taking Richard's hand, she carried it to
      her countenance.  
  She placed his fingers upon her closed eye-lids.  
  He touched them; they yielded to his pressure.  
  The sockets of the eyes were empty.  
  The eye-balls were gone!  
  "Oh! wherefore art thou thus afflicted—thou who art so guiltless, so pure, so innocent?"
      exclaimed our hero, unable to contain his emotions.  
  "Question not the will of the deity," said Mary-Anne. "I am resigned to die; and if, at
      times, a regret in favour of the world I am leaving enters my mind, or is made apparent in my
      language, I pray the Almighty to pardon me those transient repinings. Of the past it is
      useless now to think;—the present is here;—and the future is an awful subject for
      contemplation. But upon that I must now fix my attention!"  
  Markham made no answer; and during the long silence which ensued, the dying girl was wrapt
      up in mental devotion.  
  At length she said, "Give me your hand, Richard—and yours, Isabella."  
  Her voice had now lost all its excitement; and her utterance was slow and languid.  
  The lovers obeyed her desire.  
  Mary-Anne placed their hands together, and said, "Be faithful to each other—and be
      happy."  
  Richard and Isabella both wept plentifully.  
  "Adieu, my kind—my dear friends," murmured Mary-Anne. "You must now leave me; and let my
      father come to receive the last wishes of his daughter."  
  "Adieu, dearest Mary-Anne: we shall meet in heaven!" said Isabella, in a tone expressive of
      deep emotion.  
  "We will never—never forget you," added Richard.  
  He then led the weeping Isabella from the apartment.  
  As they issued from the chamber of death, they met Mr. Gregory in the passage: he wrung
      their hands, and said, "Wait in the drawing-room until I come."  
  The unhappy parent then repaired to the death-bed of his daughter.  
  Markham and Isabella proceeded in silence to the drawing-room.  
  
  CHAPTER CLIII.   PROCEEDINGS IN CASTELCICALA.  
  The scene, which they had just witnessed, produced a most painful impression upon the minds
      of the lovely Italian lady and Richard Markham.  
  For some moments after they were alone in the drawing-room together, they maintained a
      profound silence.  
  At length Richard spoke.  
  "It is a mournful occurrence which has brought us together to-day, Isabella," he said.  
  "And although this meeting between us be unknown to my father," answered Isabella, "yet the
      nature of the circumstance which caused it must serve as my apology in your eyes."  
  "In my eyes!" ejaculated Markham. "Oh! how can an apology be necessary for an interview with
      one who loves you as I love you?"  
  "I am not accustomed to act the prude, Richard," returned Isabella; "and therefore I will
      not say that I regret having met you,—apart from the sad event which led to our meeting."  
  "Oh! Isabella, if I do not now renew to you all my former protestations of affection, it is
      because it were impious for us to think of our love, when death is busy in the same
      house."  
  "Richard, I admire your feeling in this respect. But you are all our poor dying friend
      proclaimed you—high-minded, honourable, and generous. O Richard! the prophetic language of
      Mary-Anne has produced a powerful impression upon my mind!"  
  "And on mine, also," answered Markham. "Not that I esteem the prospective honours displayed
      to my view; but because I hope—sincerely hope—that my adored Isabella may one day be
      mine."  
  The Princess tendered him her hand, which he kissed in rapture.  
  "Do you know," said Isabella, after a few moments' silence, "that events are taking a turn
      in Castelcicala, which may lead to all that poor Mary-Anne has prophesied? There was a strong
      party in the state opposed to the marriage of the Grand Duke; and the military department was
      particularly dissatisfied."  
  "I remember that in the accounts which I read of the celebration of that marriage, it was
      stated that the ducal procession experienced a chilling reception from the soldiery."  
  "True," answered Isabella; "and early last month—a few days after the commencement of the
      new year—that spirit showed itself more unequivocally still. Three regiments surrounded the
      ducal palace, and demanded a constitution. The Grand Duke succeeded in pacifying them with
      vague promises; and the regiments retired to their quarters. It then appears that his Serene
      Highness wished to make an example of those regiments, and drew up a decree ordaining them to
      be disbanded, the officers to be cashiered, and the men to be distributed amongst other
      corps."  
  "That was a severe measure," remarked Richard.  
  "So severe," continued Isabella, "that General Grachia, the Minister of War, refused to sign
      the ducal ordinance. He was accordingly compelled to resign, the Duke remaining inflexible.
      The whole of the Cabinet-Ministers then sent in their resignations, which the Grand Duke
      accepted. Signor Pisani, the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, was charged with the
      formation of a new ministry—a fact which shows how completely the Duke has alienated from
      himself all the great statesmen of Castelcicala."  
  "So that he has been compelled to have recourse to an Under Secretary as his Prime
      Minister," observed Richard.  
  "Precisely," answered Isabella. "Signor Pisani formed an administration; and its first act
      was to carry into force the decree already drawn up against the three discontented regiments.
      The second proceeding of the new ministry was to banish General Grachia from the country."  
  "This was madness!" ejaculated Markham. "Does the Grand Duke wish to seal his own ruin?"  
  "It would appear that he is desperate," continued Isabella, "as I shall show you in a
      moment. General Grachia left Montoni, accompanied by his family, and followed by immense
      multitudes, who cheered him as the well-known friend of the Prince my father. The troops also
      crowded in his way, to show their respect for the veteran chief who had so often led them to
      conquest. The next morning a ducal ordinance appeared, which showed that the Grand Duke was
      resolved to throw off the mask, and proclaim a despotism. I have the   Montoni
       Gazette   in my reticule."  
  Isabella produced the newspaper, and, opening it, said, "I will translate the ordinance to
      you."  
  "Nay—rather allow me to read it for myself," returned Markham.  
  "How? But it is in Italian," exclaimed the Signora.  
  "And I will read it in that tongue," said Richard.  
  "I was not aware—I knew not until now——"  
  "No, dearest Isabella: until lately the Italian language was as Chinese to me," interrupted
      Richard: "but I have studied it intensely—without aid, without guidance; and if I cannot speak
      it fluently nor with the correct pronunciation, I can understand it with ease, and—I flatter
      myself—speak at least intelligibly."  
  The lovely Italian girl listened to this announcement with the most tender interest. She
      received it as a proof of boundless love for her; and sweet—ineffably sweet was the glance of
      deep gratitude which she threw upon her lover.  
  Richard took the   Montoni Gazette   from the fair hand which tendered it to him,
      and then read, with ease and fluency, the following translation of the ducal ordinance alluded
      to:—  
  
  "ANGELO III., BY THE GRACE OF GOD, GRAND DUKE OF CASTELCICALA,  
   "To all present and to come, Greeting:  
   "We have ordered and do order that which follows:—  
  date: and no newspaper nor periodical work shall be published in our dominions,
       without the consent of the Minister of the Interior.  
  "II. Offences against this law, as well as all others connected with the press, shall
       henceforth be brought before the cognizance of the Captain-General of the province where such
       offences may occur, instead of before the ordinary tribunals.  
  "III. No assembly of more than seven persons will henceforth be allowed to take place,
       without the consent of the local authorities, save for the purposes of religious worship and
       ceremonial.  
  "IV. Our Captains-General are hereby authorised to declare martial law in their provinces,
       or any part of their provinces, should signs of insubordination appear.  
  "V. Our Minister Secretary of State for the Department of the Interior will see to the
       execution of this our ordinance.  
  "By the Grand Duke, ANGELO III.   
  "RAPALLO PISANI, "Minister of the Interior.   
  "January 10th, 1840."    
  "The Grand Duke has thus destroyed the freedom of the press, promulgated a law to suppress
      political meetings, and menaced the country with martial law," said Richard, when he had
      terminated the perusal of this ordinance.  
  "And it would appear, by the newspapers and by private letters which my father has
      received," added Isabella, "that the Grand Duke would have proceeded to extremes far more
      dangerous to his throne had not his amiable Duchess softened him. But even her
      intercessions—and I understand she is a most deserving princess—were ineffectual in a great
      measure."  
  "Know you the results of that despotic ordinance?" asked Markham.  
  "Several riots have taken place at Montoni," answered the Signora; "and the Captain-General
      of the province of Abrantani has proclaimed martial law throughout the districts which he
      governs."  
  "Matters are then becoming serious in Castelcicala," observed Richard. "What has become of
      General Grachia?"  
  "No one knows. He left Montoni within twenty-four hours after the receipt of the decree of
      exile; but my father has received no information of his progress or intentions. Oh! my beloved
      country," she exclaimed, in a tone of pious fervour, "may God grant that thou wilt not be the
      scene of anarchy, bloodshed, and civil strife!"  
  Richard surveyed his beautiful companion with the most enraptured admiration, as she uttered
      that holy wish,—a wish that spoke so eloquently of the absence of all selfishness from her
      pure soul.  
  The above conversation had been carried on in a subdued tone; and its topic had not excluded
      from the minds of the young lovers the recollection of the sad scene which they had ere now
      witnessed.  
  Indeed they only pursued their discourse upon that particular subject, because it was
      connected with the chain of events which seemed adapted to carry out the prophetic hopes of
      the dying girl.  
  Nearly an hour had passed since they had left the chamber of death.  
  At length the door opened slowly, and Mr. Gregory entered the drawing-room.  
  His countenance was deadly pale; and yet it wore an expression of pious resignation.  
  Isabella and Richard knew that all was over.  
  Mr. Gregory advanced towards them, and taking their hands, said, "She is gone—she died in my
      arms! Almost her last words were, '  Tell Isabella and Richard sometimes to think of
       Mary-Anne  .'"  
  The bereaved parent could subdue his grief no longer: he threw himself upon the sofa and
      burst into tears.  
  Nor were the cheeks of Isabella and Richard unmoistened by the holy dew of sweet
      sympathy.  
  "Richard," said Mr. Gregory, after a long pause, "you must write to my sons and tell them of
      this sad affliction. Desire them to return home immediately from college: I was wrong not to
      have sent for them before; but—my God! I knew not that my sweet child's death was so
      near!"  
  Markham instantly complied with Mr. Gregory's request, and despatched the letter to the
      post.  
  Scarcely was this duty accomplished, when Count Alteroni's carriage drove up to the door. It
      was, however, empty, having been merely sent to fetch Isabella home.  
  The Signora took leave of Mr. Gregory, and bade a tender adieu to Richard, who handed her
      into the vehicle.  
  The carriage then drove away.  
  Richard passed the remainder of the day with Mr. Gregory, and returned home in the evening
      deeply affected at the misfortune which had overtaken an amiable family.  
  But Markham, on his arrival at his own house, was doomed to hear tidings of a most
      unpleasant nature.  
  "Mr. Tracy's footman has been here with very disagreeable news," said Ellen, the moment
      Markham entered the sitting-room. "Had I known whither you were gone, I should have directed
      him on to you."  
  "Mr. Tracy's footman!" exclaimed Richard. "Why—he was here last evening, with a letter from
      his master inviting me and Mr. Monroe to dine with him next Monday——"  
  "I am aware of it," interrupted Ellen. "And you declined the invitation."  
  "Yes—because I do not seek society," observed Richard. "I wrote a proper answer: what, then,
      did his servant require to-day?"  
  "It appears that a young person in whom you felt some interest——"  
  "Katherine Wilmot?" said Richard.  
  "That is the name," returned Ellen.  
  "What about her?" asked our hero.  
  "She has committed a crime——"  
  "A crime!"  
  "A crime of the blackest dye: she has poisoned Mr. Tracy's housekeeper."  
  "Ellen you are deceived—you are mistaken: it is impossible!" exclaimed Markham, "I never saw
      her but once, it is true: and still the impression she made upon me was most favourable. I did
      not mention any thing concerning her to either you or your father, because I sought to do an
      act of humanity in tearing her away from a wretched home; and I am not one who speaks of such
      a deed as that."  
  "I am not deceived—I am not mistaken, Richard," answered Ellen. "The footman came and
      narrated to me the particulars; and he said that his master was too unwell, through horror and
      excitement, to write to you upon the subject."  
  in connexion with the case, but the nature of which is already before the
      reader.  
  Richard remained silent for a long time, after Ellen had ceased to speak.  
  "If that innocent-looking girl be a murderess," he exclaimed at length, "I shall never put
      faith in human appearances again. But, until she be proved guilty, I will not desert her."  
  "Do you know," said Ellen, "that I do not like your Mr. Tracy at all! Not that I suppose him
      capable of falsely accusing any one of so heinous a crime as murder; but—I do not like
      him."  
  "A female caprice, Ellen," observed Richard. "The world in general adores him."  
  "Ah! those who stand upon the highest pinnacles often experience the most signal falls,"
      said Ellen.  
  "The breath of calumny has never tainted his fair fame," cried Richard.  
  "Alas! we have so many—many instances of profound ecclesiastical hypocrisy," persisted Miss
      Monroe.  
  "Ellen, you wrong an excellent man," said Markham, somewhat severely. "I will call upon him
      to-morrow morning, and learn from his own lips the particulars of this most mysterious
      deed."  
  
  CHAPTER CLIV.   REFLECTIONS.—THE NEW PRISON.  
  Richard Markham passed an uneasy night.  
  His thoughts wandered from topic to topic until the variety seemed infinite.  
  He pondered upon his brother, and again reflected for the thousandth time what connexion
      could possibly exist between him and the Resurrection Man. The fatal letter, desiring this
      terrible individual to call upon him, was too decidedly in Eugene's handwriting to be doubted.
      The other contents of the pocket-book, which Richard had found in the Gipsies' Palace, threw
      no light upon the subject; indeed, they only consisted of a few papers of no consequence to
      any one.  
  Then Richard's thoughts travelled to the Resurrection Man himself. Was this individual
      really no more? Had the truth been told relative to his death at the Gipsies' encampment near
      Pentonville prison?  
  Next our hero's imagination wandered to the death-bed of the innocent girl who had
      entertained so unfortunate a passion for him. What fervent love was that! what disinterested
      affection! And then to perish in such a manner,—with the darkness of the tomb upon her eyes,
      long ere death itself made its dread appearance!  
  But with what inspiration had she prophesied the most exalted destinies for him she loved!
      With her sybilline finger she had pointed to a throne!  
  And then how speedily were those predictions followed by the communication of events which
      portended grand political changes in Castelcicala,—changes which threatened the reigning
      sovereign with overthrow, and the inevitable result of which must be the elevation of Prince
      Alberto to the ducal throne!  
  And Isabella—how many proofs of her unvaried love for our hero had she not given? She had
      confessed her attachment to the deceased maiden—she had avowed it to that deceased maiden's
      father. Then, when Mary-Anne had prophesied the exalted rank which Isabella would be destined
      to confer, by the fact of marriage, upon Richard, the lovely Italian had ratified the premise
      by the gentle pressure of her hand!  
  Next our hero pondered upon the awful deed which had been ascribed to Katherine Wilmot; and
      here he was lost in a labyrinth of amaze, distrust, and doubt. Could it be possible that the
      blackest heart was concealed in so fair a shrine? or had circumstantial evidence accumulated
      with fearful effect to enthral an innocent girl in the meshes of the criminal law? Richard
      remembered how he himself had suffered through the overwhelming weight of circumstantial
      evidence; and this thought rendered him slow to put faith in the guilt of others.  
  Then, amidst other topics, Richard meditated upon the mysterious instructions which were
      conveyed to him in the document left behind by Armstrong, and which seemed to promise much by
      the solemn earnestness that characterised the directions relative to the circumstances or the
      time that would justify him in opening the sealed packet.  
  Thus, if some of our hero's thoughts were calculated to produce uneasiness, others were
      associated with secret hopes of successful love and dazzling visions of prosperity.  
  In three years and a half the appointment with his brother was to be kept. How would they
      meet? and would Eugene appear on the day named, and upon the hill where the two trees stood?
      Why had he not written in the meantime? Was he progressing so well that he wished to surprise
      his brother with his great prosperity? or was he so wretched that his proud heart prevented
      him from seeking the assistance of one of whom he had taken leave with a species of challenge
      to a race in the paths which lead to fortune? That Eugene was alive, Richard felt convinced,
      because the inscriptions on the tree—  Eugene's own tree  —and the letter to the
      Resurrection Man, proved this fact. The same circumstances also showed that Eugene had been
      several times in London (even if he did not dwell in the metropolis altogether) since he
      parted with Richard upon the hill.  
  was a director in no end of Railway Companies; a shareholder in all the principal
      Life Insurance Offices; a speculator in every kind of stock; chairman of several commercial
      associations; a ship-owner; a landowner; a subscriber to all charitable institutions which
      published a list of its supporters; President of a Bible Society which held periodical
      meetings at Exeter Hall; one of the stanchest friends to the Society for the Suppression of
      Vice; a great man at the parochial vestry; a patron of Sunday Schools; a part-proprietor of an
      influential newspaper; an advocate for the suppression of Sunday trading and Sunday
      travelling; a member of half a dozen clubs; a great favourite at Tattersall's; a regular
      church-goer; a decided enemy to mendicity; an intimate friend of the Poor Law Commissioners;
      and an out-and-out foe to all Reform. All this Richard knew; for he took some interest in
      watching the career of a person who had risen from nothing to be so great a man as Mr.
      Greenwood was. Then, while he reflected upon these facts, our hero was compelled to admit that
      his brother Eugene might appear, upon the appointed day, the emblem of infinite prosperity,
      and yet a being from whom the truly honest would shrink back with dismay.  
  But we will not follow Richard Markham any further in his reflections during that sleepless
      night.  
  He rose at an early hour, and anxiously awaited the arrival of the morning's newspaper.  
  From that vehicle of information he learnt that Katherine Wilmot had been examined, on the
      previous day, before the magistrate at the Marylebone Police Court, and had been remanded for
      one week, in order that the depositions might be made out previous to her committal to Newgate
      to take her trial for the murder of Matilda Kenrick.  
  We need not now dwell upon the evidence adduced on the occasion of that preliminary
      investigation, inasmuch as we shall be hereafter compelled to detail it at some length.  
  We must, however, observe that when Richard Markham perused all the testimony adduced
      against the girl before the magistrate, he was staggered; for it seemed crushing, connected,
      and overwhelming indeed.  
  Nevertheless, he remembered his own unhappy case; and he determined not to desert her.  
  He called upon Mr. Tracy, and found that gentleman unwilling to believe that so young and
      seemingly innocent a girl could be capable of so enormous a crime; yet the reverend gentleman
      was compelled to admit not only that the evidence weighed strongly against her, but that it
      was difficult to conceive how the housekeeper had come by her death unless by Katherine's
      hands.  
  Richard took his leave of the rector, in whom he saw only a most compassionate man—ready to
      allow justice to take its course, but very unwilling to utter a word prejudicial to the
      accused.  
  From Mr. Tracy's house our hero proceeded to the New Prison, Clerkenwell, to see
      Katherine.  
  The New Prison is situate in the midst of the most densely populated part of Clerkenwell. It
      was originally established in the reign of James I.; but in 1816 it was considerably improved
      and enlarged, at the enormous cost of £40,000. It is now destined to be levelled with the
      ground, and a new prison is to be built upon the same site, but upon a plan adapted for the
      application of the atrocious   solitary system  .  
  The infamy of the English plan of gaol discipline is nowhere more strikingly illustrated
      than in the New Prison, Clerkenwell. Between five and six thousand prisoners pass annually
      through this gaol; and not the slightest attempt at classification, save in respect to sex, is
      made. The beds are filthy in the extreme, and often full of vermin from the last occupant:
      thus prisoners who arrive at the prison in a cleanly state, find themselves covered with
      loathsome animalculæ after one night's rest in that disgusting place. A miserable attempt at
      cleanliness is made by bathing the prisoners; but the generality of them dislike it, and bribe
      the wardsmen to allow them to escape the ordeal. And no wonder—for the gaol authorities compel
      every six individuals to bathe one after the other in the same water, and it frequently
      happens that a cleanly person is forced into a bath containing the filth and vermin washed
      from the person of a beggar. The reader must remember, that highly respectable persons—even
      gentlemen and ladies—may become prisoners in this establishment, for breaches of the peace,
      assaults, or menaces, until they be released by bail; and yet the gentlemen are compelled to
      herd with felons, beggars, and misdemeanants—and the ladies with the lowest grade of
      prostitutes and the filthiest vagrants!  
  The prisoners pilfer from each other; and the entire establishment is a scene of
      quarrelling, swearing, fighting, obscenity, and gambling. The male prisoners write notes of
      the most disgusting description, and throw them over with a coal into the female yard. Riots
      and disturbances are common in the sleeping wards; and ardent spirits are procured with
      tolerable facility.  
  The degradation of mingling with the obscene and filthy inmates of the female Reception Ward
      was, however, avoided by poor Katherine Wilmot. The Keeper took compassion upon her youth and
      the deep distress of mind into which she was plunged, and sent her to the Female
      Infirmary.  
  When Richard Markham called at the New Prison, he was permitted to have an interview with
      Katherine in the Keeper's office.  
  The hapless girl flew towards our hero, as if to a brother, and clasping her hands fervently
      together, exclaimed, "Mr. Markham, I am innocent—I am innocent!"  
  "So I choose to believe you—unless a jury should pronounce you to be guilty," replied
      Richard; "and even then," he added, in a musing tone, "it is possible—I mean that juries are
      not infallible."  
  "Oh! Mr. Markham, I am most unfortunate—and very, very unhappy!" said Katherine, the tears
      rolling down her cheeks. "I have never injured a human being—and yet, see where I am! see how
      I am treated!"  
  At that moment Richard recalled to mind all that the policeman had told him relative to the
      unpretending charity of the poor girl,—her goodness even to the very neighbours who despised
      her,—her amiability towards her unfortunate cousin,—the pious resignation with which she had
      supported the ill-treatment of her uncle,—and her constant anxiety to earn her own bread in a
      respectable manner.  
  creature with respect to the awful deed now laid to her charge.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "It is not death that I fear, Mr. Markham," said Katherine, after a pause; "but it is
      hard—very hard to be accused of a crime which I abhor! No—I do not fear death: perhaps it
      would be better for me to die even at my age—than dwell in a world which has no charms for me.
      For I have been unhappy from my birth, Mr. Markham: I was left an orphan when I was young—so
      very young—oh! too young to lose both parents! Since then my existence has not been blest; and
      at the very moment when a brighter destiny seemed opened to me, through the goodness of
      yourself and Mr. Tracy, I am suddenly snatched away to a prison, and overwhelmed with this
      terrible accusation!"  
  "Katherine," said Richard, deeply affected by the young girl's tone and words, "I believe
      you to be innocent—as God is my judge, I believe you to be innocent!"  
  "And may that same Almighty Power bless you for this assurance!" exclaimed Katherine,
      pressing our hero's hands with the most grateful warmth.  
  "Although in asserting my conviction of your innocence, Katherine," continued Richard, "I
      leave the deed itself enveloped in the darkest mystery, still I   do   believe that you
      are innocent—and I will not desert you."  
  Richard remembered how grateful to   his   ears had once sounded those words, "I
      believe that you are innocent,"—when Thomas Armstrong uttered them in the prison of
      Newgate.  
  "Yes, Katherine—you   are  , you   must   be innocent," he continued; "and I will
      labour unceasingly to make your innocence apparent. I will provide the ablest counsel to
      assist in your defence; and all that human agency can effect in your behalf shall be ensured
      at any cost."  
  The poor girl could not find words to express her deep gratitude to this young man who so
      generously constituted himself her champion, and on whom she had not the slightest claim;—but
      her looks and her tears conveyed to our hero all she felt.  
  "Has your uncle been to see you?" he inquired.  
  "No, sir—nor my cousin," replied Katherine, with melancholy emphasis upon the latter
      words.  
  "Perhaps they are unaware of your situation. I will call and communicate to them
      the sad tidings. As your relatives, it is right that they should know the truth."  
  He then took leave of the young creature, who now felt less forlorn since she knew that she
      possessed at least one friend who would not only exert himself in her behalf, but who also
      believed in her innocence.  
  From the New Prison Richard proceeded to Saint Giles's, and knocked at the door of the
      Public Executioner's abode.  
  But his summons remained unanswered.  
  He repeated it again: all was silent within.  
  At length a neighbour,—a man who kept a coal and potato shed,—emerged from his shop, and
      volunteered some information concerning the hangman and his son.  
  "It's no use knocking and knocking there, sir," said the man: "Smithers and his lad left
      London early yesterday morning for some place in the north of Ireland—I don't know the
      name—but where there's some work in his partickler line. The postman brought Smithers a
      letter, asking him to start off without delay; and he did so. He took Gibbet with him to give
      him another chance, he said, of trying his hand. Smithers told me all this before he went
      away, and asked me to take in any letters that might come for him, or answer any one that
      called. That's how I came to know all this."  
  "Do you happen to be aware when he will return?" asked Richard.  
  "I've no more idea than that there tater," answered the man, indicating with his foot a
      specimen of the vegetable alluded to.  
  Richard thanked the man for the information which he had been enabled to give, and then
      pursued his way towards the chief police station in the neighbourhood.  
  Arrived at that establishment, he inquired for Morris Benstead.  
  The officer happened to be on the premises at the moment.  
  Markham led him to a short distance, and then addressed him as follows:—  
  "You have doubtless heard of the extraordinary position in which poor Katherine Wilmot is
      placed. I, for one, firmly believe her to be innocent."  
  "So do I, sir," exclaimed the officer, emphatically.  
  "Then you will prove the more useful to my purposes in consequence of that impression," said
      Richard. "When I saw you on a former occasion, you offered me your services if ever I should
      require them. Little did I then suppose that I should so soon need your aid. Are you willing
      to assist me in investigating this most mysterious affair?"  
  "With pleasure, sir—with the sincerest pleasure," answered Benstead. "You know the respect I
      entertain for Miss Kate."  
  "And I know your goodness of heart," said our hero. "You must then aid me in collecting
      proofs of her innocence. Spare no expense in your task: hesitate not to apply to me for any
      money that you may need. Here are ten pounds for immediate purposes. To-morrow I will let you
      know whom I shall decide upon employing to conduct the poor girl's defence; and you can then
      communicate direct with the solicitor and barrister retained. Are you willing to undertake
      this task?"  
  "Need you ask me, sir?" cried the policeman. "I would do any thing to serve Miss Kate."  
  "Prudence renders it necessary for me to keep myself in the back-ground in this affair,"
      said Richard; "for fear lest scandal should attach an unworthy motive to my exertions in her
      behalf, and thus prejudice her cause by injuring her character. Upon you, then, I throw the
      weight of the investigation."  
  "And I accept it cheerfully," returned Benstead.  
  Markham then took leave of the officer, and having paid a visit to Mr. Gregory, returned
      home.  
  
  CHAPTER CLV.   PATRIOTISM.  
  It was late in the evening of the day on which Richard adopted the measures just recorded to
      ensure the most complete investigation into the case of Katherine Wilmot, that a foreigner
      called at Markham Place and requested a few moments' private conversation with our hero.  
  The request was immediately acceded to; and the foreigner was shown into the library.  
  He was a man of middle age, with a dark complexion, and was dressed with considerable taste.
      His air was military, and his manners were frank and open.  
  He addressed Richard in bad English, and tendered an apology for thus intruding upon
      him.  
  Markham, believing him, by his accent and appearance, to be an Italian, spoke to him in that
      language; and the foreigner immediately replied in the same tongue with a fluency which
      convinced our hero that he was not mistaken relative to the country to which his visitor
      belonged.  
  "The object of my visit is of a most important and solemn nature," said the Italian; "and
      you will excuse me if I open my business by asking you a few questions."  
  "This is certainly a strange mode of proceeding," observed our hero; "but you are aware that
      I must reserve to myself the right of replying or not to your queries, as I may think
      fit."  
  "Undoubtedly," said the Italian. "But I am a man of honour; and should our interview
      progress as favourably as I hope, I shall entrust you with secrets which will prove my
      readiness to look upon you in the same light."  
  "Proceed," said Richard: "you speak fairly."  
  "In the first place, am I right in believing that you were once most intimate with a certain
      Count Alteroni who resides near Richmond?"  
  "Quite right," answered Richard.  
  "Do you, or do you not, entertain good feelings towards that nobleman?"  
  "The best feelings—the most sincere friendship—the most devoted attachment," exclaimed our
      hero.  
  "Are you aware of any particulars in his political history?"  
  "He is a refugee from his native land."  
  "Does he now bear his true name?"  
  "If you wish me to place confidence in you," said Richard, "you will yourself answer me one
      question, before I reply to any farther interrogatory on your part."  
  "Speak," returned the Italian stranger.  
  "Do you wish to propose to me any thing whereby I can manifest my attachment to Count
      Alteroni, without injury to my own character or honour?" demanded Richard.  
  "I do," said the stranger solemnly. "You can render Count Alteroni great and signal
      services."  
  "I will then as frankly admit to you that I am acquainted with   all   which relates to
         Count Alteroni  ," said Richard, dwelling upon the words marked in italics.  
  "With   all   which relates to   Prince Alberto of Castelcicala  ?" added the
      stranger, in a significant whisper. "Do we understand each other?"  
  "So far that we are equally well acquainted with the affairs of his Highness the Prince,"
      answered Richard.  
  "Right. You have heard of General Grachia?" said the foreigner.  
  "He is also an exile from Castelcicala," returned Markham.  
  "He is in England," continued the foreigner. "I had the honour to be his chief aide-de-camp,
      when he filled the post of Minister of War; and I am Colonel Morosino."  
  Richard bowed an acknowledgment of this proof of confidence.  
  "General Grachia," proceeded Morosino, "reached England two days ago. His amiable family is
      at Geneva. The general visited Prince Alberto yesterday, and had a long conversation with his
      Highness upon the situation of affairs in Castelcicala. The Grand Duke is endeavouring to
      establish a complete despotism, and to enslave the country. One province has already been
      placed under martial law; and several executions have taken place in Montoni itself. The only
      crime of the victims was a demand for a Constitution. General Grachia represented to his
      Highness Prince Alberto the necessity of taking up arms in defence of the liberties of the
      Castelcicalans against the encroachments of despotism. The reply of the Prince was
      disheartening to his friends and partizans. '  Under no pretence  ,' said he, '  would
       I kindle civil war in my native country.  '"  
  "He possesses a truly generous soul," said Richard.  
  "He is so afraid of being deemed selfish," observed the Colonel; "and no one can do
      otherwise than admire that delicacy and forbearance which shrink from the idea of even
      appearing to act in accordance with his own personal interests. The Prince has every thing to
      gain from a successful civil war: hence he will not countenance that extremity."  
  "And what does General Grachia now propose?" asked Markham.  
  "You are aware that when Prince Alberto was exiled from Castelcicala for having openly
      proclaimed his opinions in favour of a Constitution and of the extension of the popular
      liberties, numbers of his supporters in those views were banished with him.   We know  
      that there cannot be less than two thousand Castelcicalan refugees in Paris and London. Do you
      begin to comprehend me?"  
  "I fear that you meditate proceedings which are opposed to the wishes of his Highness Prince
      Alberto," said Markham.  
  "The friends of Castelcicalan freedom can undertake what in them would be recognised as
         pure patriotism  , but which in Prince Alberto would be deemed the result of his own
         personal interests   or   ambition  ."  
  "True," said Richard: "the distinction is striking."  
  "The Prince, moreover, in the audience which he accorded to General Grachia yesterday
      evening, used these memorable words:—'  Were I less than I am, I would consent to take up
       arms in defence of the liberties of Castelcicala; but, being as I am, I never will take a
       step which the world would unanimously attribute to selfishness.  '"  
  "Those were noble sentiments!" ejaculated Markham: "well worthy of him who uttered
      them."  
  "And worthy of serving as rules and suggestions for the patriots of Castelcicala!" cried
      Colonel Morosino. "There are certain times, Mr. Markham," he continued, "when it becomes a
      duty to take up arms against a sovereign who forgets   his duty   towards his subjects.
      Men are not born to be slaves; and they are bound to resist those who attempt to enslave
      them."  
  "Those words have often been uttered by a deceased friend of mine—Thomas Armstrong,"
      observed Richard.  
  "Thomas Armstrong was a true philanthropist," said the Colonel; "and were he alive now, he
      would tell you that subjects who take up arms against a bad prince are as justified in so
      doing as the prince himself could be in punishing those who violate the laws."  
  "In plain terms," said Richard, "General Grachia intends to espouse the popular cause
      against the tyranny of the Grand Duke?"  
  "Such is his resolution," answered Colonel Morosino. "And now that you have heard all these
      particulars, you will probably listen with attention to the objects of my present visit."  
  "Proceed, Colonel Morosino," said Richard. "You must be well aware that, as one well
      attached to his Highness Prince Alberto, I cannot be otherwise than interested in these
      communications."  
  "I shall condense my remarks as much as possible," continued the officer. "General Grachia
      purports to enter into immediate relations with the Castelcicalans now in London and Paris. Of
      course the strictest secresy is required. The eventual object will be to purchase two or three
      small ships which may take on board, at different points, those who choose to embark in the
      enterprise; and these ships will have a common rendezvous. When united, they will sail for
      Castelcicala. A descent upon that territory would be welcomed with enthusiasm by nine-tenths
      of the population; and the result," added Morosino, in a whisper,—"the inevitable result must
      be the dethronement of the Grand Duke and the elevation of Alberto to the sovereign seat."  
  "That the project is practicable, I can believe," said Markham; "that it is just, I am also
      disposed to admit. But do you not think that a bloodless revolution might be effected?"  
  "We hope that we shall be enabled successfully to assert the popular cause without the loss
      of life," returned Morosino. "But this can only be done by means of an imposing force, and not
      by mere negotiation."  
  "You consider the Grand Duke to be so wedded to his despotic system?" said Markham
      interrogatively.  
  a sovereign, and so servile an administration as that of which Signor Pisani is
      the chief?" demanded the Colonel. "And surely you must allow that patriotism must not have too
      much patience. By allowing despots to run their race too long, they grow hardened and will
      then resist to the last, at the sacrifice of thousands of lives and millions of treasure."  
  "Such is, alas! the sad truth," said Richard. "At the same time a fearful responsibility
      attaches itself to those who kindle a civil war."  
  "Civil wars are excited by two distinct motives," returned the Colonel. "In one instance
      they are produced by the ambition of aspirants to power: in the other, they take their origin
      in the just wrath of a people driven to desperation by odious tyranny and wrong. The latter is
      a sacred cause."  
  "Yes—and a most just one," exclaimed Markham. "If then, I admit that your projects ought to
      be carried forward, in what way can my humble services be rendered available?"  
  "I will explain this point to you," answered Colonel Morosino. "General Grachia, myself, and
      several stanch advocates of constitutional freedom, met to deliberate last evening upon the
      course to be pursued, after the General had returned from his interview with the Prince at
      Richmond. We sat in deliberation until a very late hour; and we adopted the outline of the
      plans already explained to you. We then recognised the necessity of having the co-operation of
      some intelligent, honourable, and enlightened Englishman to aid us in certain departments of
      our preliminary arrangements. We must raise considerable sums of money upon certain securities
      which we possess; we must ascertain to what extent the laws of this country will permit our
      meetings, or be calculated to interfere with the progress of our measures; we must purchase
      ships ostensibly for commercial purposes; and we must adopt great precautions in procuring
      from outfitters the arms, clothing, and stores which we shall require. In all these
      proceedings we require the counsel and aid of an Englishman of honour and integrity."  
  "Proceed, Colonel Morosino," said Richard, seeing that the Italian officer paused.  
  "We then found ourselves at a loss where to look for such a confidential auxiliary and
      adviser; when one of our assembly spoke in this manner:—'I came to this country, as you well
      know, at the same time as his Highness the Prince. From that period until the present day I
      have frequently seen his Highness; and I became aware of the acquaintance which subsisted
      between his Highness and an English gentleman of the name of Richard Markham, who was
      introduced to his Highness by the late Thomas Armstrong. I am also aware that a
      misunderstanding arose between the Prince and Mr. Markham: the nature of that misunderstanding
      I never learnt; but I am aware that, even while it existed, Richard Markham behaved in the
      most noble manner in a temporary difficulty in which his Highness was involved. I also know
      that the motives which led to that misunderstanding have been completely cleared away, and
      that the Prince now speaks in the highest terms of Mr. Richard Markham. Address yourselves,
      then, to Mr. Markham: he is a man of honour; and with him your secret is safe, even if he
      should decline to meet your views.'—Thus spoke our friend last night; and now the cause and
      object of my visit are explained to you."  
  "You have spoken with a candour and frankness which go far to conquer any scruples that I
      might entertain in assisting you," said Richard. "At the same time, so important a matter
      demands mature consideration. Should I consent to accept the office with which you seek to
      honour me, I should not be a mere lukewarm agent: I should enter heart and soul into your
      undertaking; nor should I content myself with simply succouring you in an administrative
      capacity. Oh! no," added Richard, enthusiastically, as he thought of Isabella, "I would
      accompany you on your expedition when the time came, and I would bear arms in your most
      righteous cause."  
  "Generous young man!" cried the Colonel, grasping our hero's hand with true military
      frankness: "God grant that your answer may be favourable to us. But pray delay not in
      announcing your decision."  
  "This time to-morrow evening I will be prepared to give you an answer," returned
      Markham.  
  The Colonel then took his leave, saying, "To-morrow evening I will call again."  
  
  CHAPTER CLVI.   THE DECISION.  
  Richard Markham retired to rest, but not to immediate slumber.  
  The proposal of Colonel Morosino was of a most perplexing nature.  
  Our hero longed to be enabled to show his devotion to Isabella by exerting himself in what
      must eventually prove her father's cause; but he was afraid of acting in a manner which might
      displease the Prince.  
  Then he reflected that the Prince had uttered those expressive words, "  Were I less than
       I am, I would consent to take up arms in defence of the liberties of Castelcicala  ."  
  The more Richard pondered upon these words, the more was he inclined towards the service
      proposed to him; and when he remembered that he should be associated with some of the most
      gallant and disinterested of Italian patriots, he felt a generous ardour animate his
      bosom.  
  "Oh! if I could but achieve some deed that would render me worthy of Isabella," he thought,
      "how should I bless the day when I adopted the cause of those brave exiles who now seek my
      aid! Yes—I will join them, heart and soul; and in me they shall have no lukewarm supporter!
      The die is cast;—and this resolution must either make or mar me for ever!"  
  Richard then gradually fell into a profound slumber: but the subjects of his latest thoughts
      became the materials of which his dreams were woven.  
  if the salutations of countless multitudes were addressed to him—and as if he
      returned them! Then the scene changed, by one of those rapid transitions so peculiar to
      dreams; and he found himself standing at the altar, the lovely Isabella by his side. A tiara
      of diamonds adorned her brow and on his own was a princely coronet. Then the ceremony was
      completed; and friends with smiling countenances gathered around to congratulate him and his
      lovely bride; and the swelling words "Your Highness" and "My Lord" echoed upon his ears. He
      turned to address his thanks to those who thus felicitated him—and awoke!  
  "A dream—a dream!" he exclaimed, as the gay pageantry of the vision yet dwelt vividly in his
      mind: "but will the most happy episode therein ever be fulfilled?"  
  Richard rose with depressed spirits; for a dream of that nature—by raising us to the highest
      eminence to which our aspirations ever soared, and then dashing us back again to the cold
      realities of earth—invariably leads to a powerful reaction.  
  The day passed without any incident of importance; and by the time the evening arrived,
      Richard had recovered his mental serenity.  
  Punctual to his appointment, Colonel Morosino made his appearance.  
  He came in a chaise, accompanied by another individual; but the latter did not alight from
      the vehicle.  
  "Mr. Markham," said the Colonel, when he was alone with our hero, in the library, "have you
      made up your mind?"  
  "I have," answered Richard, in a decided tone.  
  "And your decision——"  
  "Is to join you, heart and soul—to throw myself with enthusiasm into your cause—to
      co-operate with you as if I were a Castelcicalan subject," said Richard, his handsome
      countenance glowing with animation, his fine dark eyes flashing fire, and his nostrils
      dilating with the ardour which filled his soul.  
  "I am no prophet, if you ever repent this decision," said Colonel Morosino, pressing
      Richard's hands warmly. "Will you now permit me to introduce a gentleman who has accompanied
      me?"  
  "With much pleasure," answered Markham.  
  The Colonel stepped out, and at the expiration of a few moments returned, accompanied by a
      tall, thin, military-looking man, whose lofty bearing and eagle eye bespoke him as one who had
      been accustomed to command.  
  "Mr. Markham," said the Colonel, "may you soon become better acquainted with General
      Grachia."  
  The veteran proffered Richard his hand with true military frankness, and observed, "I
      rejoice to find that your decision is favourable to our views."  
  "You will also find that I shall be zealous and unwearied in your service," rejoined
      Markham.  
  "Our proceedings," continued General Grachia, "must be conducted with caution, so that no
      rumour prejudicial to our measures may reach Castelcicala."  
  "I believe it to be understood," said Markham, "that should the Grand Duke change his policy
      to such an extent that the Castelcicalans may obtain their just rights and privileges by means
      of his concessions, before our own projects shall be ripe for execution,—that, in this case,
      we at once abandon them."  
  "Assuredly," replied General Grachia. "God knows the purity of my motives, and that I would
      not plunge my country into civil war without the pressure of a dire necessity. Neither am I
      adopting extreme measures from vindictive motives because the Grand Duke has banished me not
      only from office but also from the territory. Had I assented to his despotic decrees I might
      have retained my high position in the cabinet, and aggrandized my own fortunes at the same
      time. As a proof of my integrity, Mr. Markham, read this document."  
  The General produced from his pocket-book a letter which had been sealed with the ducal
      signet, and was addressed "  To His Excellency General Grachia, Minister Secretary of State
       for the Department of War  ."  
  This document he handed to Richard, who found that it was an autograph letter from the Grand
      Duke to the General, written at the time when the military disturbances occurred at Montoni.
      It remonstrated with General Grachia for refusing to countersign the ordinance decreeing the
      disbandment of the three regiments, and promising him the rank of Marquis and the Premiership
      if he would but consent to aid his Serene Highness in carrying out the proposed rigorous
      measures.  
  "To this letter I replied by sending in my resignation," said General Grachia; "and thus I
      wrecked my own fortunes, and made my wife and children exiles."  
  "You acted nobly—like a true patriot," cried Markham, contemplating the veteran with
      admiration. "If for one instant I entertained a scruple in embracing your cause, it is now
      annihilated; for you have honoured me with the most convincing proofs of your patriotism."  
  "I served the Grand Duke faithfully," said the General; "and I cannot reproach myself for
      any measure which I ever recommended to his Serene Highness. Although deeply attached to
      Prince Alberto, I did not oppose the marriage of the Grand Duke; because I believed that, upon
      principle, sovereigns are entitled to as much freedom in affairs so nearly touching their
      domestic happiness, as any of their subjects. I saw in the present Grand Duchess an amiable
      lady; and I knew that she was a virtuous one from the strong recommendations which she
      received from his Highness Prince Alberto and the Earl of Warrington to myself and my family.
      I supported, then, that marriage upon principle—upon a conviction which I entertain. I believe
      that sovereigns have a right to consult their own happiness in marriage; but I never will
      admit that they have a right to enslave their subjects. I will maintain the privileges of
      princes, when I consider them encroached upon by the people: with equal readiness will I
      protect the people against the tyranny of princes."  
  Richard listened with admiration to these noble sentiments; and he could not help
      exclaiming, "How blind sovereigns often seem to the merits and honesty of those who would
      counsel them wisely!"  
  "Such is too frequently the case," observed Colonel Morosino.  
  refugees who support us, will take a house in London in his own name; and there
      shall our head-quarters be fixed. There shall we hold our meetings; and thence will our
      correspondence be expedited to those whom we can trust, and on whose support we can rely. In
      order to avoid all cause of suspicion, I shall take a house for myself and suite at the West
      End, where I shall, however, lead a comparatively secluded life. Fortunately, the greater
      portion of my property consisted in money in the public funds of Castelcicala; and for that I
      obtained securities which may be easily realised in London. My friend Morosino stands in the
      same position. Between us we can muster some twenty thousand pounds; and other exiles, who are
      favourable to our views, can throw ten thousand more into the common stock."  
  "To which I shall also be permitted to contribute my   quota  ," interrupted
      Richard.  
  "Not if we can manage without it," answered General Grachia; "and I have no doubt that
      pecuniary resources will not be wanting in this good cause."  
  The General then proceeded to a more detailed development of his plans; but as we shall have
      to deal with them fully hereafter, we will take leave of the subject for the present.  
  Before we conclude this chapter we must record two or three little incidents that maintain
      the continuous thread of our narrative.  
  A week after the demise of Miss Gregory, the funeral took place at a suburban cemetery. The
      bereaved father and afflicted brothers were the chief mourners; but Richard also followed the
      remains of the departed girl to the tomb. An elegant but chaste and unassuming monument marks
      the spot where she reposes in her narrow bed.  
  At the expiration of the seven days during which she had been remanded, Katherine was
      examined a second time before the magistrate, and was fully committed for trial.  
  A Coroner's Inquest had in the meantime recorded a verdict of   Wilful Murder   against
      her.  
  She was accordingly conveyed to Newgate.  
  But Richard Markham did not neglect her interests; and Morris Benstead was busy in adopting
      every possible measure to fathom the deep mystery in which the awful deed was still
      shrouded.  
  
  CHAPTER CLVII.   THE TRIAL OF KATHERINE WILMOT.  
  The March sessions of the Central Criminal Court commenced upon a Monday morning, as
      usual.  
  On the Wednesday Katherine Wilmot was placed in the dock, to take her trial for the murder
      of Matilda Kenrick.  
  The particulars of the case had produced a great sensation; and the door-keepers of the
      gallery of the court reaped a rich harvest by the fees for admission.  
  Katherine was deadly pale; but she had made up her mind to conduct herself with fortitude;
      and her demeanour was resigned and tranquil.  
  Richard Markham was in the gallery of the court; but his manner was uneasy and anxious:—he
      had heard nothing of Benstead, the policeman, for the preceding forty-eight hours; and not a
      fact had that individual communicated to the counsel for the prisoner which might tend to
      prove her innocence or even throw a doubt upon her guilt!  
  When called upon to answer to the indictment, Katherine pleaded, in a firm tone, "  Not
       Guilty  ."  
  The counsel for the prosecution then stated the case, which was supported by the following
      testimony:—  
  Henry Massey deposed: "I am a surgeon, and reside in Great Coram Street. One evening, early
      in February, a young female came to my shop and purchased two ounces of laudanum. She brought
      no phial with her. I gave it to her in a phial of my own, which I labelled   Poison  . On
      the following evening I was summoned to the house of the Rev. Mr. Tracy. I was introduced into
      the kitchen, where I found the deceased lying back in her chair quite dead. A young female was
      there; and I recognised her to be the one who had purchased the poison at my shop. She is the
      prisoner at the bar. From this circumstance and others which transpired, I suspected her to
      have poisoned the deceased; and I had her given into custody. The Rev. Mr. Tracy was in the
      kitchen when I arrived. He was doing all he could to recover the deceased. He was deeply
      affected. On the following day I examined the deceased, and found that she had died by poison.
      That poison was laudanum. I discovered so large a quantity in her, by the usual tests, that
      she must have experienced a deep lethargy almost immediately after taking the poison, and
      could not have lived many minutes. I cannot say that she did not take it voluntarily, and with
      the object of committing suicide. There was nothing upon the table near her—no cup, glass, nor
      any drinking vessel. The phial produced is the one in which I sold the poison."  
  Thomas Parker deposed: "I am footman to the Rev. Mr. Tracy. On the morning of the day when
      the housekeeper was poisoned, I overheard a conversation between her and Katherine Wilmot. The
      deceased informed Katherine that she must leave the house, but would not assign any reason.
      The deceased, however, said that she would provide for Katherine at a sister's in the country.
      Katherine objected to leave London, because her relations live here. I thought Mrs. Kenrick
      was jealous of Katherine, and wished to get rid of her. I mean that deceased thought that
      Katherine would perhaps be entrusted to fulfil some of her duties as housekeeper. I came out
      of the pantry, where I was cleaning the plate, and observed that I supposed Mrs. Kenrick was
      jealous of Katherine. The housekeeper cut the matter short by saying that Katherine should
      leave. Katherine was very miserable all day afterwards. In the evening my master sent me with
      a letter to a gentleman at Holloway. When I came back, I found the housekeeper dead. The first
      witness was there, in the kitchen. So were my master, Katherine, and the groom. I alluded to
      the conversation which had taken place between the deceased and the prisoner in the morning.
      The surgeon mentioned about Katherine having bought the laudanum at his house. Katherine
      seemed very much confused. She was then given into custody."  
  hastened to the yard of the house where the screams came from. I saw Katherine
      wringing her hands and crying. I asked her what was the matter? She said, '  Mrs. Kenrick is
       dead  .' I hurried into the kitchen. Almost immediately afterwards Mr. Tracy came in. He
      had been alarmed by the screams too, he said. I found the housekeeper lying forward on the
      table, with her face resting on her arms, as if she had fallen asleep. I raised her, and laid
      her back in her chair. She seemed quite dead. Mr. Tracy was greatly affected. Katherine did
      not offer to help, but withdrew to the farther end of the kitchen. She cried very much. Mr.
      Tracy sent me for a surgeon. When I came back with the first witness, we found Mr. Tracy
      bathing deceased's head with vinegar, and doing all he could to recover her. Katherine was not
      assisting him." This witness then confirmed the previous statement relative to the immediate
      circumstances which led to Katherine's arrest. He concluded his testimony thus: "When I first
      went into the kitchen, there were no cups, nor glasses, nor any drinking vessels on the table.
      All the tea-things had been washed and put into their proper place."  
  The Rev. Reginald Tracy deposed: "I received the prisoner into my service through charity. I
      had no character with her. I had known her before, because she had attended the St. David's
      Sunday Schools. I considered her to be a most exemplary young person. I was not aware that
      Mrs. Kenrick intended to send her away. Mrs. Kenrick had the power, if she chose to do so, as
      she managed my household for me. I cannot say that Katherine had done any thing to offend Mrs.
      Kenrick. She had done nothing to offend me. In the evening I was alarmed by screams. I went
      down into the kitchen, and found the housekeeper in the position described by the last
      witness. I sent him for a surgeon, and adopted all the remedies within my reach to recover the
      housekeeper. I think I had observed that something had been preying upon the mind of the
      deceased. She had lately been melancholy and abstracted."  
  Cross-examined: "I am not aware that Katherine went out on the evening in question. I do not
      know that she visited her uncle on that evening. I cannot say that she did not. She would not
      have asked me for permission to do so. She would have applied to Mrs. Kenrick. I was unwell
      all day, and did not leave my room until I heard the screams. I was very loath to believe that
      Katherine could have perpetrated such a deed. I told the surgeon so."  
  A policeman deposed: "I was summoned to Mr. Tracy's house on the evening in question. I took
      the prisoner into custody. When I had conveyed her to the station-house, I returned to Mr.
      Tracy's house. I searched the kitchen. I found the phial, produced in court, upon a shelf. It
      was empty."  
  This testimony closed the case for the prosecution.  
  The general impression which prevailed amongst the auditory was unfavourable to the
      prisoner.  
  Richard Markham trembled for her: still his confidence in her innocence was unshaken.  
  But time wore on: the case was drawing to a close;—and not a sign of Morris Benstead!  
  Markham knew not what to think.  
  The manner in which Reginald Tracy gave his evidence was the subject of much comment in the
      gallery.  
  "What an amiable man he appears to be!" said one.  
  "How he endeavoured to create an impression in favour of the prisoner," observed
      another.  
  "He said that he was loath to believe her guilty," remarked a third, "and considered her to
      be an exemplary young person."  
  "Hush! hush!" said the first speaker: "the case is about to be resumed."  
  This was the fact. The Judges, having retired for a few minutes, had now returned to the
      bench.  
  The counsel for the defence rose.  
  He began by calling upon the jury to dismiss from their minds any prejudice which the
      statements in the newspapers in connexion with the case might have created. He then dissected
      the evidence for the prosecution. He insisted much upon the importance of the fact that the
      poison had been purchased the evening before the conversation took place between the deceased
      and the prisoner, relative to the removal of the latter from the house. His instructions were
      that the prisoner had purchased that poison by order of the deceased, and, as the prisoner
      understood at the time, for the use of her master who had returned home unwell. There was no
      proof that Katherine had done any thing wrong, and that she might have anticipated receiving
      warning from the housekeeper, and thus have actually contemplated murder when she procured the
      laudanum. It was stated that there was no cup nor glass upon the table—no drinking vessel in
      which poison could be traced. The inference thence drawn by the counsel for the prosecution
      was that the prisoner must have administered the poison—most probably in deceased's tea, and
      had then washed the cup. But might not the deceased have taken the poison with the intention
      of committing suicide, by drinking it from the phial which was found upon the shelf? Would not
      the prisoner have concealed or destroyed the phial, had she really administered the poison?
      The prisoner's account of the case was this. Mrs. Kenrick of her own accord had given her
      permission to visit her friends for an hour on the fatal evening. The prisoner availed herself
      of this kindness, and proceeded to her uncle's residence in St. Giles's. He (the counsel)
      hoped to have been able to prove the important fact of this visit, because it would show that
      the housekeeper had purposely sent Katherine Wilmot out of the way: but, unfortunately, the
      prisoner's uncle had not yet returned to town; and although a letter had been sent to the
      place whither it was supposed that he had proceeded——  
  At this moment a great bustle was observed in the body of the court; and a man, elbowing his
      way through the crowd, advanced towards the learned counsel for the defence.  
  Richard's heart leapt within him: at the first glance he recognised, in that man, his agent,
      Morris Benstead, dressed in plain clothes.  
  Benstead whispered to the barrister for some minutes, and then handed him a letter which the
      learned gentleman perused rapidly.  
  The most breathless suspense prevailed throughout the court.  
  "My lords," at length exclaimed the barrister, retaining the letter in his hand, and
      addressing the Judges, "this case is likely to take a most unexpected turn."  
  himself: "the poor creature's innocence will be made apparent—I feel that it
      will!"  
  Meantime Morris Benstead again forced his way through the crowd, and took his stand close by
      Reginald Tracy.  
  Poor Katherine knew not what all this meant; but her heart beat violently with mingled
      emotions of hope, uncertainty, and apprehension.  
  "My lords," continued the barrister, "I need not continue my speech in defence of the
      prisoner. I shall at once proceed to call my witnesses."  
  The anxiety of the audience grew more and more intense.  
  "Jacob Smithers!" cried the barrister.  
  The Public Executioner instantly ascended into the witness-box.  
  He deposed as follows: "The prisoner is my niece. She called at my house on the evening
      alluded to. She remained with me at least half an hour. She did not complain of Mrs. Kenrick;
      nor did she say that she was to leave the Rev. Mr. Tracy's house. I remember that I was very
      low-spirited myself that evening; and so I suppose she did not choose to annoy me by saying
      that she was to leave. Or else, perhaps, she thought that I should wish her to return home to
      me if I knew that she was to leave Mr. Tracy's service. I have been to Belfast where I was
      detained some days: then I accepted an engagement to go to the Isle of Man. I never received
      any letter informing me of what had occurred to my niece. The fact is, I do not go by my right
      name when I travel in that way, because I have to stop at inns, and do not like to be known.
      That is probably the reason why a letter addressed to me by the name of Smithers did not reach
      me. I did not see the account of this business in the newspapers until a few days since, when
      I was in the Isle of Man; and I returned home as quick as possible. I only reached London an
      hour ago."  
  "You may stand down," said the barrister: then, after a pause, he exclaimed, "Rachel
      Bennet!"  
  An elderly woman, decently attired in mourning, but evidently in a very sickly state of
      health, slowly ascended into the witness-box.  
  She deposed: "I am the sister of the deceased, and reside about three miles from Hounslow. I
      received a letter from my sister early in February. The letter now shown me is the one." (This
      was the same letter which Benstead had given to the barrister.) "On the following day I
      received a letter from Mr. Tracy informing me of my sister's death, and stating that it was
      supposed she had been poisoned by a young person then in custody. I was bed-ridden with
      illness at the time, and was supposed to be dying. I could not therefore come to London, or
      take any steps in the matter. Some one came to me yesterday, and induced me to come to
      town."  
  The counsel for the defence then passed the letter, which had been placed in his hands by
      Benstead, to the clerk of the court, by whom it was read.  
  Its contents were as follow:—  
  
  My dear Rachel  
  "I hope this will find you much improved in health: at the same time I am somewhat anxious
       at not having heard from you. My present object in writing to you is to request you to
       receive at your house a young person in whom I am interested, and who is at present in Mr.
       Tracy's service. Katherine Wilmot is a pretty and interesting girl; and it would be unsafe
       for her to remain   here  . You know, dear Rachel, that you and I have never had any
       secrets between us; and I am not now going to break through that rule of mutual confidence
       which has been the basis of our sincere attachment. The truth is, Mr. Tracy is not what he
       was. He has fallen from the pinnacle of virtue which he once so proudly occupied; and it was
       only this morning that I had the most convincing proof of his weakness and folly! O Rachel—I
       met him and his mistress face to face upon the stairs! But I will not dwell upon this: I
       sincerely pray to heaven that he may repent, and become the good man he once was. I know that
       this secret will be sacred with you. But I am determined to remove from him all temptations,
       as far as lies in my humble power; and you may now comprehend my motives for sending
       Katherine Wilmot away from this house. In a word, I shall despatch her to you by to-morrow's
       coach; and will write at greater length by her.  
  "Your affectionate Sister,  
  MATILDA KENRICK."    
  This letter produced a most extraordinary sensation in the court.  
  The Judges, the barrister, the prisoner, and the audience were astounded at this revelation
      of the weakness of that man whom the world almost worshipped as a saint.  
  "Ellen was right!" murmured Richard Markham to himself: "he is a hypocrite! But I never
      could have thought it!"  
  And what of Reginald himself?  
  The moment the clerk reached that paragraph which proclaimed the astounding fact of his
      unworthiness, a cold perspiration broke out upon his forehead; and he turned to leave the
      court.  
  But Morris Benstead caught him by the arm, and pointing to a seat, said, "You must remain
      here, if you please, sir: I am an officer."  
  The rector cast a look of unutterable dismay upon the policeman, and fell upon the bench in
      a state of mind bordering on distraction.  
  Meantime the case proceeded.  
  The counsel for the prosecution said that he should like to ask Rachel Bennet a few
      questions.  
  That witness accordingly returned to the box.  
  "Why did you not empower some one to produce that letter when the prisoner was examined
      before the magistrate?" inquired the prosecuting counsel.  
  "Because, sir, I did not conceive that it could be of any use. I never for a moment
      suspected that any other person besides the one accused could have taken away my poor sister's
      life. My husband proposed to send the letter to the magistrate; but as my sister had written
      to me in strict confidence, I would not consent to that step. And now, since you have asked
      me, sir, I will tell you what I really   did   think; and God forgive me if I have been
      unjust."  
  "We do not want to hear what you thought," exclaimed the prosecuting counsel. "You may stand
      down."  
  "No," cried the barrister for the defence: "as we are upon the subject, we   will  
      have the witness's impressions."  
  see the good of producing a letter which would only expose Mr. Tracy."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Now you may stand down," said the counsel for the prisoner: then, in a loud tone, he
      called, "John Smithers!"  
  And Gibbet entered the witness-box.  
  His first glance was towards the dock; and that look, rapid, and imperceptible to others,
      conveyed a world of hope to the bosom of poor Katherine.  
  Richard Markham was at a loss to conceive what testimony the hump-back could bring forward
      in the prisoner's favour.  
  Every one present felt the deepest interest in the turn given to the proceedings.  
  The hump-back stood upon a stool that there was in the witness-box; and even then his head
      was alone visible. His hideous countenance, pale and ghastly through his intense feelings for
      Katherine's situation, was nevertheless animated with confidence and hope.  
  Amidst a dead silence of awe-inspiring solemnity, he deposed as follows:—  
  "I am the prisoner's cousin. She has ever been most kind to me; and I was always happy in
      her society. When she went to live at Mr. Tracy's house, I thought that I should be able to
      see her every evening; but on one occasion Mr. Tracy met me, and said that I might only visit
      her on Sundays. I had, however, discovered an obscure corner in his yard, where I could hide
      myself and see all that passed in the kitchen of his house. I went to that corner regularly
      every evening, Sunday excepted; and remained there an hour—sometimes more. I did not want to
      pry into what was going on in Mr. Tracy's house: all I cared about was to see Katherine."  
  A murmur, expressive of deep feeling—mingled surprise, sympathy, and admiration—on the part
      of the audience, followed this ingenuous announcement. Many an eye was moistened with a tear;
      and even the Judges did not look angrily when that murmur met their ears.  
  Gibbet continued:—  
  out. As I had sometimes seen her do so before, and return very shortly afterwards,
      I thought she had merely gone to execute some little commission; and I remained where I was.
      Although Katherine used to pass through the yard, and close by me, when she went out in that
      manner, I never spoke to her, for fear she should reprove me for what she might think was
      watching her actions. Immediately after she was gone, Mrs. Kenrick laid the tea things; and in
      a few minutes Mr. Tracy entered the kitchen. He and the housekeeper sate down to tea. Mrs.
      Kenrick was pouring out the tea, when Mr. Tracy said something which made her pause. She then
      put down the tea-pot, fetched a coffee-biggin, and made some coffee. She filled two cups, and
      then turned towards the shelves to fetch a small jug, which I thought contained milk. But
      while her back was turned, I saw Mr. Tracy hastily put his hand into his waistcoat pocket, and
      then as rapidly advance his hand to Mrs. Kenrick's cup. All that was the work of only one
      moment; and I could not distinctly see why he did so. In fact I did not think much of it,
      until afterwards. Mrs. Kenrick resumed her seat; and she and Mr. Tracy drank their coffee. I
      observed that Mrs. Kenrick took no milk, and drank hers very quickly. In a short time I saw
      her head begin to nod as if she was sleepy: she got up, and walked about. Then she sate down
      again, and placed her arms on the table as if to support herself. In a short time her head
      fell forward on her arms. I felt a little alarmed; but still scarcely knew why. Mr. Tracy
      watched her for some minutes after she had fallen forward in that manner, and then bent down
      his head to look at her face. In another moment he rose, and to my surprise washed up all the
      things on the table and placed them upon the shelves. Then I began to fear that something was
      wrong; and I stole away. When I got home I found my father rather cross with me for staying
      out; and I was afraid to tell him what I had seen. Early the next morning we left for Ireland;
      and I never had courage to speak to my father upon this subject until we read the account of
      the murder and of Katherine's arrest. That was in the Isle of Man."  
  The reader may imagine the profound sensation which this narrative created.  
  Richard Markham was literally astounded.  
  Katherine Wilmot wept abundantly.  
  Reginald Tracy was crushed, as it were, to the very dust, by this overwhelming exposure of
      his guilt.  
  The jury whispered together for a few moments; and the foreman rose and said, "My lords, it
      is rather as a matter of form than as the result of any deliberation, that we pronounce a
      verdict of   Not Guilty  ."  
  "The prisoner is discharged," said the senior judge. "It will be the duty of the police to
      take charge of Reginald Tracy."  
  "I have him in custody, my lord," exclaimed Morris Benstead in a loud tone.  
  
  CHAPTER CLVIII.   A HAPPY PARTY.  
  In a private room up stairs, at a tavern nearly opposite the Court-house of the Old Bailey,
      a happy party was assembled.  
  And yet the group was somewhat motley.  
  It consisted of Richard Markham, Katherine Wilmot, the Public Executioner, Gibbet, Rachel
      Bennet, and Morris Benstead.  
  The best luncheon which the house afforded was spread upon the table.  
  "And so you really thought I was lost, sir?" said Benstead. "I am not the man to neglect the
      business that is entrusted to me; neither do I excite hopes unless I know that they'll be
      realised."  
  "But you have not yet told me how you came to bring all your witnesses into court at one and
      the same moment," said Richard Markham.  
  "Well, sir, I'll soon satisfy your curiosity on that head," returned the policeman. "I made
      every exertion to sift the entire matter to the bottom; but the farther I went into it, the
      more mysterious it seemed. At last I was pretty nearly inclined to give it up in despair. One
      of the principal measures that I adopted was to endeavour to trace, step by step, all that
      either Mrs. Kenrick or Katherine did on the day when the murder took place. I have seen, in my
      time, so much important evidence come out of the most trivial—really the most ridiculous
      things, that I resolved to glean every minute particular I could relative to the motions of
      both the deceased and the accused on that day. My firm idea was that the housekeeper had
      committed suicide—saving your presence, ma'am," added Benstead, turning towards Mrs. Bennet.
      "Well, I found out the principal shops where Mr. Tracy dealt; and I visited them all to
      ascertain if Mrs. Kenrick had been there on that day; and if so, whether her words or manner
      had betrayed any thing strange. But I could learn nothing material. Various other schemes I
      thought of, and put into execution; but as they all failed, there's no use in mentioning them.
      At length, yesterday evening I happened to call at the post-office near Mr. Tracy's house. I
      got into conversation with the post-mistress, who seemed to be well acquainted with the late
      Mrs. Kenrick. In the course of comment and observation upon the mysterious event, the
      post-mistress said, 'I do really think there's some ground for supposing that the poor dear
      woman committed suicide; for she came here to pay a letter to her sister only a few hours
      before she was found dead; and then I saw that she wasn't as she usually was. Something
      appeared to hang upon her mind.'"  
  "That was no doubt the sorrow she experienced at having discovered the hypocrisy of her
      master," observed Richard.  
  night of the supposed murder; and so I scribbled a note to Mr. Smithers, desiring
      him, in case he should return home in time to-day, to lose not a minute in coming to this very
      tavern and sending over into the Old Court to fetch me. This note I left with the
      green-grocer; and I then hastened to the station. I obtained permission to absent myself, and
      lost no time in hiring a post-chaise. But it was midnight before I reached Hounslow; and then
      I learnt that Mrs. Bennet lived three miles away from that town. So I was obliged to wait till
      the first thing this morning before I could see her. Then a great deal of time was wasted,
      because Mrs. Bennet and her husband could not rightly understand why I came, or on whose side
      I was engaged. I do not blame them for their caution:—I only mention the fact to account for
      our being so late in court. At length I succeeded in persuading Mrs. Bennet to show me her
      sister's letter to her; and when I read it, the whole affair wore another appearance in my
      mind. I saw through it in a moment. Then I resolved upon bringing Mrs. Bennet up to London
      with me; and to her credit, she did not hesitate an instant to accompany me, when I had
      communicated to her the suspicions which that letter had awakened in my mind, and impressed
      upon her the necessity of hastening to save an innocent person from the weight of an unjust
      accusation. To conclude this long and rambling story, we came up in the post-chaise; and, as
      luck would have it, just as we drove up to this tavern, Mr. Smithers and his son were stepping
      out of a cab at the door."  
  "Ah! Mr. Markham," said Katherine, "how can I ever sufficiently express my gratitude towards
      you; for it was by means of your generosity that Mr. Benstead was enabled to make those
      exertions which led to this happy result."  
  "I felt convinced of your innocence from the first," returned our hero; "and it was not
      probable that I should abandon you when such were my sentiments."  
  "A life devoted to your service, sir, could not repay the debt which I owe you," said Kate.
      "And you, my dear cousin," she continued, turning towards Gibbet, who was seated next to
      her,—"you also have been no unimportant instrument in rescuing me from infamy and death."  
  "Do not speak of it, Kate," said the hump-back, whimpering like a mere child. "I hope you
      won't scold me for watching you like a cat every evening as I did."  
  "Scold you, John! Oh! how can you make use of such words to me—and after the service you
      have rendered me?" exclaimed Kate, tears also streaming down her own cheeks. "I ought to bless
      God—and I do—to think that your friendship towards me led you to adopt a step to see me, which
      has turned so wonderfully—so providentially to my advantage."  
  "And now, Kate," said the executioner, "tell me one thing: why didn't you mention to me that
      evening when you called, that you were going to leave the rector's service?"  
  "Because, my dear uncle," answered the young maiden, "you made one observation to me which
      showed that you were pleased at the idea of me being in Mr. Tracy's service; and as you were
      so dull and low-spirited, I did not like to tell you any thing that might occasion you
      additional vexation. You said—oh! I shall never forget your words—they made me weep as I
      followed you from the street door into the parlour——"  
  "Yes—because I so seldom spoke kindly to you, poor Kate," exclaimed the executioner, as if
      struck by a sudden remorse.  
  "Do not say that, dear uncle! I owe so much—so very much to you, that even if you have been
      harsh to me now and then, I never think of it—and then, perhaps I have deserved it," she added
      slowly; for the amiable girl was anxious to extenuate her uncle's self-accusation in the eyes
      of those present.  
  "No—you did   not   deserve it, Kate!" cried the executioner, with resolute emphasis;
      "you are a good girl—too good ever to have been in such a den as mine!"  
  Smithers threw himself back in his chair, and compressed his lips together to restrain his
      emotions.  
  But nature asserted her empire.  
  A tear trickled from each eye, and rolled slowly down the cheeks of that man whose heart had
      been so brutalized by his fearful calling.  
  Kate rose from her chair, and threw herself into his arms, exclaiming, "Uncle—dear uncle, if
      you speak kindly to me, I am indeed happy!"  
  Gibbet cried, and yet laughed—sobbed, and yet smiled, in so strange a manner, as he
      contemplated that touching scene, that the result of his emotions presented the most ludicrous
      aspect.  
  "Sit down, Kate dear," said Smithers: "I am not used to be childish;—and yet, I don't know
      how it is, but I don't seem ashamed of dropping a tear now. I know I'm a harsh, brutal man:
      but what has made me so? God, who can read all hearts, has it written down in his book that I
      was once possessed of the same kind feelings as other people. However—it's no use talking:
      what I am I must remain until the end."  
  "Believe me," exclaimed Richard Markham, who was ever sensibly alive to the existence of
      generous feelings in others,—"believe me," he cried, grasping Smithers' hand, "society lost a
      good man when you undertook your present avocation."  
  "What, sir!" ejaculated Smithers, unfeignedly surprised; "do you shake hands with the Public
      Executioner?"  
  "Yes—and unblushingly would I do so before the whole world," replied Markham, "when I
      discover at the bottom of his soul a spark—aye, even the faintest spark of noble and exalted
      feeling yet unquenched."  
  The Public Executioner fixed upon the animated and handsome countenance of our hero a glance
      of the deepest gratitude—a glance of respect, almost of veneration!  
  He then cast down his eyes, and appeared to plunge into profound rumination.  
  "You were going to tell us, Miss Katherine," said Benstead, "what observation it was that
      prevented you from communicating to your uncle the notice Mrs. Kenrick had given you to
      leave."  
  "Oh! I remember," exclaimed the young maiden, upon whose heart the noble conduct of Richard
      Markham towards her despised and degraded relative had made a deep impression: "my uncle said
      to me, '  I am almost sorry that I ever parted with you; but as you are now in a place that
       may do you good, I shall not interfere with you  .'"  
  you after all? But where are you going to live now? If you can make yourself happy
      with me, I will offer you a home and show you the kindness of a mother."  
  Katherine turned a look of deep gratitude upon the good woman who made her this generous
      offer; and then she glanced timidly towards her uncle and Richard Markham.  
  "If I may be allowed to speak my thoughts in this matter," said our hero, "I should counsel
      Katherine to accept a proposition so kindly, so frankly made; and it shall be my duty to see
      that she becomes not a burden upon the friend who will provide her with a home."  
  "I can give no opinion in the matter, sir," observed the executioner: "there is something
      about you which compels me to say, '  Deal with me and my family as you will  .' Command,
      sir, and we will obey."  
  "I never command—but I advise as a friend," said Richard, touched by the strange gentleness
      of manner which was now evinced by one lately so rude, so brutal, so self-willed. "Katherine,
      then, has your consent to accompany Mrs. Bennet to Hounslow?"  
  "And I sincerely thank Mrs. Bennet for her goodness towards that poor girl who has undergone
      so much," said the executioner.  
  Mrs. Bennet now suggested that her husband would be uneasy if she remained long absent from
      home; and Richard immediately summoned the waiter, to whom he gave orders to procure a
      post-chaise.  
  This command was speedily executed. Katherine took leave of her relatives, Markham, and
      Benstead, with streaming eyes.  
  "God bless you, my girl," said the executioner, in a tone the tremulousness of which he
      could not altogether subdue.  
  Gibbet could say nothing: his voice was choked with sobs.  
  Katherine, however, whispered words of kindness in his ears; and the poor hump-back smiled
      as he wrung her hand with all the fervour of his affection.  
  "To you, Mr. Markham," said Kate, "no words can convey the gratitude—the boundless gratitude
      and respect which I entertain for you."  
  "Be happy, Katherine," returned Richard, shaking her warmly by the hand; "and remember that
      in me you have a sincere friend, always ready to aid and advise you."  
  The young maiden then tendered her thanks to the good-hearted policeman for the interest he
      had manifested in her favour.  
  The farewells were all said; good wishes were given and returned; and Mrs. Bennet hurried
      Katherine from the room. Those who remained behind, watched their departure from the
      window.  
  The moment the post-chaise had rolled away from the door of the tavern, Smithers accosted
      our hero, and said, "I am no great hand at making speeches, sir; but I can't take my leave of
      you, without saying something to convince you that I'm not ungrateful for what you've done for
      my niece. Your goodness, sir, has saved her from death; and more than that, has proved her
      innocence. You are the best man I ever met in my life: you are more like an angel than a human
      being. I didn't think that such men as you could be in existence. It makes me have a better
      opinion of the world when I look upon you. How happy would a country be if it had such a
      person as yourself for its sovereign! I cannot understand my own feelings in your presence: I
      seem as if I could fall at your feet and worship you. Then I think that I am unworthy even to
      breathe the same air that you do. But your words have made me happy to some extent: for years
      I have not felt as I feel to-day. I can say no more, sir: I don't know how I came to say so
      much!"  
  And the executioner turned abruptly aside; for he was weeping—he was weeping!  
  Markham had not interrupted him while he spoke, because our hero knew that it was well for
      that man to give way to the good feelings which the contemplation of humanity and philanthropy
      in others had so recently awakened.  
  But Richard did not perceive that, while the executioner was giving utterance to the
      invincible promptings of nature, Gibbet had drawn near,—had listened to his father with
      indescribable interest,—had drunk in with surprise and avidity every word that fell from his
      lips,—and had gradually sunk upon his knees in the presence of that benefactor whom even a
      rude, brutalized, and savage disposition was now compelled to believe to be something more
      than man!  
  "This, sir," said Benstead, glancing his eyes around, and touching Markham's arm to direct
      his attention to the scene,—"this, sir, is doubtless a welcome reward for all your
      goodness."  
  Richard hastily brushed away a tear, and raising Gibbet from his adoring posture, said,
      "You, my good lad, possess a heart worthy of a nobleman. Look upon me as your friend!"  
  Then our hero caught Smithers by the hand, and drawing him into the recess of a window,
      whispered in a low and rapid tone, "You are not insensible to the charms of being useful to
      one's fellow-creatures. I implore you to renounce your fearful calling—and I will supply you
      with the means to enter upon some other pursuit."  
  Smithers did not answer for a few moments: he appeared to reflect profoundly.  
  "Yes—I will follow your advice, sir," he at length said: "but not quite yet! I must hang up
      that rector—and then,   then   I will abandon the calling for ever!"  
  With these words the executioner turned abruptly away, caught Gibbet by the hand, and
      hurried from the room.  
  A few minutes afterwards Richard Markham and Benstead also took their departure, each in a
      different direction; but the police-officer's pocket contained substantial proofs of our
      hero's liberality.  
  
  CHAPTER CLIX.   THE INTERVIEW.  
  A week passed away, during which the examination of Reginald Tracy took place before the
      police-magistrate, and terminated in the committal of the rector to Newgate.  
  The whole town rang with the extraordinary events which had led to this crisis in the career
      of a man whose very name had so lately inspired respect.  
  brought upon their cloth by this terrific explosion; for people grew inclined to
      look upon real ecclesiastical sanctity as nothing more nor less than a garb of rank
      hypocrisy.  
  Some ministers of the gospel, more daring and enthusiastic than the rest, boldly proclaimed
      from their pulpits that Reginald Tracy was a saint and a martyr, against whom a horrible
      conspiracy had been concocted in order to remove the imputation of murder from the young
      female who had been discharged, and fix it on him.  
  Other clergymen entered into learned disquisitions to prove that Satan must have obtained
      especial leave from God, as in the case of Job, to tempt the most holy and pious of men; and
      that, having failed to seduce him from the right path, the Evil One had accomplished a series
      of atrocities all so artfully arranged as to fix the stain upon the rector of St. David's.  
  But there were some reverend gentlemen, who, having always been jealous of Reginald Tracy's
      popularity, descanted in significant terms upon the shallowness of mere eloquence in the
      pulpit, and the folly of running after "fashionable preachers." One venerable and holy
      gentleman, who had been married three times, and had received from his wives an aggregate of
      seventeen pledges of their affection, bitterly denounced in his sermon the "whitened
      sepulchre," "tinkling cymbal," and "unclean vessel," who had dared to set his face against the
      sacred institution of matrimony.  
  The fashionable world was powerfully excited by the exposure of Reginald Tracy. Some
      wiseacres shook their heads, and observed that they had always suspected there was something
      wrong about the rector; others plainly asserted that they had even prophesied what would
      happen some day. The fair sex all agreed that it was a great pity, as he   was   such a
      charming preacher and such a handsome man!  
  The press was not idle in respect to the business. The newspapers teemed with "Latest
      Particulars;" and all the penny-a-liners in London were on the alert to collate additional
      facts. Nine out of ten of these facts, however, turned out to be pure fictions. One journal,
      conducted on more imaginative principles than its contemporaries, promulgated a new discovery
      which it had made in respect to the rector's history, and coolly fixed upon his back all the
      murders which had occurred in the metropolis during the previous dozen years, and the
      perpetrators of which had never yet been detected.  
  Heaven knows Reginald Tracy was bad enough; but if one believed all which was now said of
      him in the public journals, no monster that ever disgraced humanity was so vile as he.  
  Some of the cheap unstamped periodicals treated their readers with portraits of the rector;
      and as very few of the artists who were employed to draw them had ever seen their subject, and
      were now unable to obtain access to him, their inventive faculties were put to the most
      exciting test. And, as a convincing proof that no two persons entertain the same idea of an
      object which they have never seen, it may be observed that there was a most extraordinary
      variety in the respective characteristics of these portraits.  
  In a word, the rector's name engrossed universal attention:—a cheap romance was issued,
      entitled "The Murdered Housekeeper; or the Corrupt Clergyman;"—one of the minor theatres
      attracted crowded houses by the embodiment of the particulars of the case in a melodrama;—and
      Madame Tussaud added the effigy of Reginald Tracy to her collection of wax-works.  
  But what were the feelings of Lady Cecilia Harborough when the terrible announcement of the
      rector's arrest met her ears!  
  We must observe that when she first heard of the death of the housekeeper, she entertained a
      faint suspicion that Reginald, and not Katherine Wilmot, was the author of the deed. But while
      the young girl was yet in prison, before the trial, and when Cecilia and the rector met, the
      latter so eloquently expatiated upon the case, that Cecilia's suspicions were hushed; and she
      learnt to look upon the housekeeper's death following so shortly on the exposure of the
      rector's hypocrisy to that female, as a remarkable coincidence only. Moreover, the rector had
      all along declared his impression that the housekeeper had committed suicide, and that the
      innocence of Katherine would be made apparent before the judges.  
  Thus Cecilia's mind had been more or less tranquillised during the interval which occurred
      between the housekeeper's death and the day of trial.  
  But when, in the afternoon of the day on which that trial took place, the appalling news of
      Katherine's acquittal and Reginald's arrest reached her ears, she was thrown into a state of
      the most painful excitement.  
  It was true that she could not in the slightest degree be implicated in the enormous crime
      of which he was accused: but would her guilty connexion with him transpire?  
  Her conscience entertained the worst forebodings in this respect.  
  At one moment she thought of hastening to visit him in his prison: then she reflected that
      such a course would only encourage a suspicion calculated to proclaim that scandal which she
      was so anxious to avoid.  
  Fortunately Sir Rupert Harborough was still away from home, with his friend Chichester, and
      thus Lady Cecilia had no disagreeable spy to witness her distressing emotions and
      embarrassment.  
  Day after day passed; Reginald had been committed, as before stated, to Newgate; and Cecilia
      heard nothing from him.  
  At length at the expiration of a week from the day of his arrest, a dirty, shabby-looking
      lad called in Tavistock Square, and requested to see Lady Cecilia Harborough alone.  
  He was accordingly admitted to her presence.  
  "Please, ma'am," he said, "I've come with a message from Mr. Tracy, which is in Newgate. He
      is a wery nice gen'leman, and is certain sure to be hung, they say."  
  "Who are you?" demanded Cecilia, with ill-concealed disgust.  
  "Please, ma'am, I belong to an eating-house in the Old Bailey," returned the boy; "and I
      takes in Mr. Tracy's meals to him."  
  "And what do you want with me?"  
  "Please, ma'am, Mr. Tracy says will you go and see him to-morrow morning between ten and
      eleven?"  
  "In Newgate!" ejaculated Lady Cecilia, with an unaffected shudder.  
  every day o' my life; and so I'm sure you needn't be afraid to wisit it just for
      vonce."  
  "Well—I will think of it. Have you any thing else to say to me?"  
  "Please, ma'am, Mr. Tracy says that you've no call to give your own name at the gate; but if
      you pass yourself off as his sister, just come up from the country, you can see him alone in
      his cell. But if you don't do that you'd on'y be allowed to speak to him through the bars of
      his yard. He would have wrote to you, but then the letters must be read by the governor before
      they goes out; and so it would have been known that he sent to you. He never thought of
      speaking about it to me till this morning; and I promised to do his arrand faithful. That's
      all, ma'am."  
  "And enough too," said Lady Cecilia, in a tone of deep disgust, as she threw the lad a few
      shillings across the table in the room where she received him.  
  "Is there any message, ma'am, to take back to Mr. Tracy?" asked the boy; "'cos I shall see
      him the first thing in the morning."  
  "You may say that I will do as he desires," answered Cecilia: "but beware how you mention to
      a soul that you have been here. Forget my name as if you had never heard it."  
  "Yes, ma'am—to be sure," replied the boy; "and thank'ee kindly."  
  He then pocketed the money, and took his departure.  
  "Newgate, Newgate!" thought Lady Cecilia, when she was once more alone: "there is something
      chilling—menacing—awful in that name! And yet I must penetrate into those gloomy cells to
      see—whom? A murderer! Oh! who would have thought that the rich, the handsome, the renowned,
      the courted, the flattered rector of St. David's would become an inmate of Newgate? A
      murderer! Ah—my God, the mere idea is horrible! And that uncouth boy who said coolly that he
      was certain to be hanged! Reginald—Reginald, to what have you come? Would it not have been
      better to dare exposure—contumely—infamy—reproach, than to risk such an appalling alternative?
      But reputation was dearer to this man than aught in the world beside! And he is rich:—what
      will he do with his wealth? Perhaps it is for   that   he desires my presence? Who
      knows?"  
  This idea determined Lady Cecilia upon visiting Newgate on the following day.  
  She did not reflect that she herself was the first link in that chain which had so rapidly
      wound itself around the unhappy man, until it paralysed his limbs in a criminal gaol. She
      often asked herself how he could have been so mad as to commit the deed that menaced him with
      the most terrible fate; but beyond the abstract event itself she never thought of looking.  
  The morning dawned; Lady Cecilia rose, and dressed herself in as unpretending a manner as
      possible.  
  At half-past nine she went out, took a cab at the nearest stand, and proceeded to
      Newgate.  
  She ascertained, by inquiry, which was the prison entrance, and ascended the steps leading
      to the half-door, the top of which was garnished with long iron spikes.  
  A stout, red-faced turnkey, with a good-tempered countenance, admitted her into the obscure
      lobby, behind which was a passage where a gas-light burns all day long.  
  "Who do you want, ma'am?" said the turnkey.  
  "Mr. Tracy," was the reply.  
  "Are you any relation to him?"  
  "His sister. I have just arrived from the country."  
  "Please to write your name down in this book."  
  Lady Cecilia, who seldom lost her presence of mind, instantly took up the pen, and wrote
      down "  Anne Tracy  ."  
  "Excuse me, ma'am," said the turnkey, "but if you have any knife in your pocket you must
      leave it here."  
  "I have none," answered Cecilia.  
  "Take that passage, ma'am, and you will find a turnkey who will admit you to Tracy's
      cell."  
  All titular distinctions are dropped in Newgate.  
  Lady Cecilia proceeded along the passage as she was desired, and at length reached a large
      stone vestibule, from which several doors opened into the different yards in that part of the
      building.  
  She accosted a turnkey, informing him whom she came to visit; and he bade her follow
      him.  
  In a few moments he stopped at a massive door, opened it, and said, "Walk in there,
      ma'am."  
  She advanced a few steps: the door closed behind her; and she found herself in the presence
      of Reginald Tracy.  
  But how changed was he! His cheeks were ghastly pale—his eyes sunken—his hair was in
      disorder—his person dirty and neglected.  
  "This is kind of you, Cecilia," he said, without rising from his chair. "Sit down, and lose
      no time in conversing—we have not much time to be together."  
  "Oh, Reginald!" exclaimed Cecilia, as she took a seat, "what a place for us to meet in!"  
  "Now do not give way to ejaculations and laments which will do no good," said Reginald. "If
      you can maintain your tranquillity it will be advantageous to yourself. You know that I am
      possessed of some property?"  
  "The world always believed you to be rich," observed Cecilia.  
  "I have lately been extravagant," continued Reginald: "still I have a handsome fortune
      remaining. As I am not   yet   condemned," he added bitterly, "I can leave it to whom I
      choose. Do you wish to be my heiress?"  
  "Ah! Reginald—this proof of your affection——"  
  "No superfluous words, Cecilia," interrupted the rector impatiently. "If you wish to possess
      my wealth you must render me a service—an important service, to merit it."  
  "Any thing in the world that I can do to benefit you shall be performed most faithfully,"
      said Lady Cecilia.  
  "And you will not shrink from the service which I demand? The condition is no light
      one."  
  "Name it. Whatever it be, I will accept it—provided that it do not involve my safety,"
      returned Cecilia.  
  has any particular claim upon me. I can constitute you my heiress: at my death,"
      he added slowly, "all I possess may revert to you,—the world remaining in ignorance of the
      manner in which I have disposed of my wealth. But if I thus enrich you, I demand from your
      hands the means of escaping an infamy otherwise inevitable."  
  "I do not understand you," said Cecilia, somewhat alarmed.  
  The rector leant forward, fixed a penetrating glance upon his mistress, and said in a hollow
      and subdued tone, "I require poison—a deadly poison!"  
  "Poison!" echoed Cecilia, with a shudder.  
  "Yes: do you comprehend me now? Will you earn wealth by rendering me that service?" he asked
      eagerly.  
  "What poison do you require?" demanded Cecilia greatly excited.  
  "Prussic acid: it is the most certain—and the quickest," answered the rector. "If you are
      afraid to procure it yourself, the old hag in Golden Lane will assist you in that
      respect."  
  "And must it really come to this?" said Cecilia. "Is all hope dead?"  
  "My doom is certain—if I live to meet it," answered Reginald, who only maintained the
      composure which he now displayed by the most desperate efforts to subdue his emotions. "The
      evidence is too damning against me. And yet I imagined that I had adopted such precautions!"
      he continued, in a musing tone. "I felt so confident that the poor, old woman would appear to
      have died by her own hand! I sent the footman out of the way, not upon a frivolous cause, but
      on an errand which would bear scrutiny. I made the housekeeper herself get rid of Katherine. I
      did all that prudence suggested. But never—never did I anticipate that   another   would
      be charged with the crime! And yet, when suspicion attached itself so strongly to that poor
      innocent girl, what could I do? I had but two alternatives—to allow her to suffer, or to
      immolate myself by proclaiming her guiltlessness. Oh! Cecilia, you know not—you cannot
      conceive all that I have suffered since that fatal evening! Often and often was I on the point
      of going forward and confessing all, in order to save that innocent girl. But I had not the
      courage! When I gave my testimony, I rendered it as favourable towards her as possible. I
      laboured hard to encourage the suspicion that the deceased had been her own destroyer. But
      fate had ordained that all should transpire."  
  He paused, and buried his face in his hands.  
  A sob escaped his breast.  
  "This is childish—this is foolish in the extreme," he suddenly cried. "Time is passing—and
      you have not yet decided whether you will render me the service I require, upon the
      consideration of inheriting all my wealth."  
  "I will do what you ask of me," said Cecilia, in a low but decided tone.  
  "And do not attempt to deceive me," continued Reginald; "for if you bring me a harmless
      substitute for a deadly poison, you will frustrate my design, it is true—but I shall live to
      revoke the bequest made in your favour."  
  "I will not deceive you, Reginald—if you be indeed determined," said his mistress.  
  "I   am   determined. We now understand each other: to me the poison—to you the
      wealth."  
  "Agreed," was the answer.  
  "The day after to-morrow you will return—provided with what I require?" said Reginald.  
  "You may rely upon me."  
  "Then farewell, Cecilia, for the present."  
  The rector offered the lady his hand: Cecilia pressed it with affected fervour, though in
      reality she almost recoiled from the touch.  
  Profligate as she was, she had no sincere sympathy for a murderer.  
  Nor was she sorry when she once more found herself beyond the terrible walls of Newgate.  
  
  CHAPTER CLX.   THE RECTOR IN NEWGATE.  
  Reginald Tracy awoke early on the morning when Cecilia was to return to him.  
  He had been dreaming of delicious scenes and voluptuous pleasures; and he opened his eyes to
      the fearful realities of Newgate.  
  He clasped his hands together with the convulsiveness of ineffable mental agony; and the
      smile that had played upon his lips in his elysian dream, was suddenly changed into the
      contortion of an anguish that could know no earthly mitigation.  
  "Fool—madman that I have been!" he exclaimed aloud, in a piercing tone of despair. "From
      what a brilliant position have I fallen! Wealth—pleasure—fame—love—life, all about to pass
      away! The entire fabric destroyed by my own hands! Oh! wretch—senseless idiot—miserable fool
      that I have been! But is it really true?—can it be as it seems to me? Have I done the deed? Am
      I here—  here  , in Newgate? Or is it all a dream? Perhaps I have gone suddenly mad, and
      my crime and its consequences are only the inventions of my disordered imagination? Yes—it may
      be so; and this is a mad-house!"  
  Then the rector sate up in his bed, and glanced wildly around the cell.  
  "No—no!" he cried with a shriek of despair; "I cannot delude myself thus. I am indeed a
         murderer  —and   this   is Newgate!"  
  He threw himself back on the rude bolster, and covered his face with his hands.  
  But though he closed his eyes, and pressed his fingers upon the lids until the balls
      throbbed beneath, he could not shut out from his mind the horrors of his position.  
  "Oh! this is insupportable!" he cried, and then rolled upon his bed in convulsions of rage:
      he gnashed his teeth—he beat his brow—he tore his hair—he clenched his fists with the fury of
      a demon.  
  His emotions were terrible.  
  He seemed like a wild beast caught in a net whose meshes were inextricable.  
  Then a rapid reaction took place in that man of powerful passion; and he grew
      exhausted—humble—and penitent.  
  "O God, have mercy upon me!" he said, joining his hands in prayer. "I have grievously
      offended against thee: oh! have mercy upon me. Why didst thou permit me to fall? Was I not
      enthusiastic in thy cause? O heaven, have mercy upon me!"  
  This short prayer, in which reproach and intercession were commingled, was said with
      profound sincerity.  
  But the image of Cecilia suddenly sprang up in the rector's imagination; and then
      his entire form once more became convulsed with rage.  
  "That wretch—that adulteress was my ruin!" he exclaimed, clenching his fist so violently
      that the nails of his fingers almost penetrated into his palms. "I was virtuous and untainted
      until I knew her. She led me astray: she taught me the enjoyment of those pleasures which have
      proved so fatal to me! The wretch—the adulteress! And to be condemned the day before yesterday
      to maintain a forced calmness towards her! Oh! I could tear her limb from limb: I could dig my
      nails into the flesh whose dazzling whiteness and whose charms were wont to plunge my soul in
      ecstacies. The foul—the vile creature! May she die in a dungeon, as I shall die: no, may she
      rot upon the straw—may she perish by degrees—of starvation,—a cruel, lingering death of agony!
      Had I never known her, I should yet be on the pinnacle of pride and fortune,—yet be respected
      and adored! Ah! these thoughts drive me mad—mad."  
  And again he beat his forehead and his breast: again he tore his hair, and writhed
      convulsively on his bed.  
  "Senseless idiot that I have been!" he continued. "Better—better far were it to have thrown
      off the mask—to have dared the world! I was rich—and I was independent. I might have lived a
      life of luxury and ease, pleasure and enjoyment;—but I was too weak to risk exposure. And that
      poor old woman whom I destroyed—was she not devoted to me! would she have proclaimed my
      hypocrisy? My conscience made me behold every thing in its worst light. I anticipated complete
      security in her death. And now I must die myself,—give up this bright and beautiful world in
      the prime of my existence,—abandon all earth's pleasures and enjoyments in the vigour of my
      days! Senseless idiot that I was to suppose that murder could be perpetrated so easily—to
      imagine that the finger of God would not point to me, as much as to say '  That is the
       man  .' Yes—though millions be assembled together in one vast crowd, the hand of the
      Almighty will single out the ruthless murderer!"  
  The rector ceased, and lay for some instants still and motionless.  
  But his mind was fearfully active.  
  "Had not all this occurred," he thought within himself, "I should now be awaking, in my
      comfortable chamber, to a day which would be marked with the same happiness and security that
      other men are now enjoying. I should be free to go out and come in at will—free to walk hither
      and thither as I might choose. I should not have death staring me in the face, as at present!
      I should be able to say with confidence, '  To-morrow I will do this  ,' and '  Next
       day I will do that  .' I should be my own master, possessed of all that can make man
      happy. But, now—  now   what a wretch I am! Confined to these four walls—a mere automaton
      that must eat and drink when a gaoler chooses!"  
  These thoughts were too heart-rending for the miserable man to endure; and, starting from
      his bed, he threw on his clothes with a rapidity that denoted the feverish state of his
      mind.  
  The clock struck eight; and his breakfast was brought to him.  
  "How many times more shall I hear that sound?" he asked himself. "Once how welcome were the
      notes of bells to my ears! With what happiness did I obey their summons to that church to
      which crowds flocked to hear me! Oh! what calm, what peaceful enjoyments were mine
         then  —in the days of my innocence! And those days are gone—never to return! No human
      power can restore me to those enjoyments and to that innocence; and God will not do it!"  
  Thus passed the time of this truly wretched man.  
  At length the clock struck nine—next ten.  
  "Will she come?" he said, as he paced his cell with agitated steps. "Or will she be afraid
      of compromising herself? And yet she must have confidence in me: I have acted in a manner to
      inspire it. I suffered her to believe that it was out of regard for her that I did not write
      to her, and that I recommended her to pass in as my sister. The vile wretch! she little knows
      that all this was the result of calculation on my part! If I had shown myself indifferent to
      her reputation—careless of her name,—she would not have so readily consented to do my bidding.
      Perhaps she would never have come to me at all! Now she believes that I am anxious to avert
      the breath of scandal from herself; and she will serve me: yes—I feel convinced that she will
      come!"  
  Nor was Reginald mistaken.  
  Scarcely had he arrived at that point in his musings, when the bolts of his cell were drawn
      back, and Lady Cecilia entered the dungeon.  
  "You are true to your promise," said the rector.  
  "Yes—I would not fail you," answered Cecilia, throwing herself into a chair: "but I
      tremble—oh! I tremble like a leaf."  
  "Have you brought—  it  ?" asked Reginald in a hollow tone.  
  Cecilia drew from her bosom a small crystal phial, and handed it to the rector.  
  He greedily withdrew the cork, and placed the bottle to his nostrils.  
  "Yes—you have not deceived me! Now—now," he exclaimed, as he carefully concealed the phial
      about his person, "I am the master of my own destinies!"  
  And, as he spoke, his countenance was animated with an expression of diabolical triumph.  
  Cecilia was alarmed.  
  "My God, what have I done?" she cried; "perhaps I have involved myself——"  
  "Set aside these selfish considerations," said the rector; "you have earned wealth—for I
      have kept my promise—I have bequeathed all my fortune to you."  
  "Do not imagine that I shall ever receive enjoyment from its possession, dear Reginald,"
      returned Cecilia, affecting a tenderness of tone and manner which she did not feel.  
  "Oh! I know your good heart, beloved Cecilia," exclaimed the rector; and as she cast down
      her eyes beneath his looks, he glared upon her for a moment with the ferocity of a tiger. "But
      you will be surprised—yes, agreeably surprised," he added composedly, "when you call upon my
      solicitor—which you must do to-morrow! Here is his address."  
  "To-morrow!" echoed Cecilia, turning deadly pale. "You cannot mean to——to——"  
  "To take this poison to day?" said Reginald. "Yes—this evening at seven o'clock you may pray
      for my soul!"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Oh! this is, indeed, dreadful!" cried Cecilia. "Give me back that phial—or I will raise an
      alarm!"  
  "Foolish woman! Will you not be worth twenty thousand pounds!" ejaculated Reginald. "And
      fear not that you will be compromised. I shall leave upon this table a letter that will
      exculpate you from any suspicion of having been the bearer to me of the means of
      self-destruction—even if it be discovered who it was that visited me here as my alleged
      sister."  
  "This consideration on your part is truly generous, Reginald," said Cecilia, in whose breast
      the mention of the twenty thousand pounds had stifled all compunction.  
  "We must now part, Cecilia—part for ever," observed the rector. "Go—do not offer to embrace
      me—I could not bear it!"  
  "Then farewell, Reginald—farewell!" exclaimed Cecilia, who was not sorry to escape a
      ceremony which she had anticipated with horror—for the idea that her paramour was a murderer
      was ever present in her mind.  
  "Farewell, Cecilia," added the rector; and he turned his back to the door.  
  In another moment she was gone.  
  "Thank heaven that I was enabled to master my rage," cried Reginald, when he was once more
      alone. "Oh! how I longed to fall upon her—to tear her to pieces! The selfish harlot—as if I
      could not read her soul   now  —as if I were any longer her dupe. But I shall be avenged
      upon her—I shall be avenged! My death will be the signal of her exposure—my dissolution will
      be the beginning of her shame! Oh! deeply shall she rue every caress she has lavished upon
      me—every accursed wile that she practised to ensnare me! Her blandishments will turn to moans
      and tears—her smiles to the contortions of hell. The fascinating syren shall become the mark
      for every scornful finger. Fool that she is—to think I would die unavenged! If my existence be
      cut short suddenly—hers shall be dragged out in sorrow and despair."  
  Then the rector paced his cell, while from his breast escaped a hoarse sound like the low
      growling of a wild beast.  
  But we will not dwell upon the wretched man's thoughts and words throughout that
      long day.  
  Evening came.  
  Six o'clock struck; and Reginald feared no farther interruption from the turnkeys.  
  He then sate down to write two letters.  
  Having occupied himself in this manner for a short time, he sealed the letters, and
      addressed them.  
  When this task was accomplished, he felt more composed and calm than he had done during the
      day.  
  He walked three or four times up and down his cell.  
  Then he fell upon his knees, and prayed fervently.  
  Yes—fervently!  
  Seven o'clock struck.  
  "Now is the hour!" he exclaimed, rising from his suppliant posture near the bed.  
  He took the bottle from his pocket: a convulsive shudder passed over him as he handled the
      fatal phial whose contents were to sever the chain which bound his spirit to the earth.  
  Then he felt weak and nervous; and he sate down.  
  "My courage is failing," he said to himself: "I must not delay another moment."  
  But he still hesitated for a minute!  
  "No—no!" he exclaimed, as if in answer to an idea which had occupied him during that
      interval; "there is no hope! My fate would be——the scaffold!"  
  This thought nerved him with courage to execute his desperate purpose.  
  He raised the phial to his lips, and swallowed the contents—greedy of every drop.  
  In a few seconds he fell from his chair—a heavy, lifeless mass—upon the floor of the
      dungeon.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXI.   LADY CECILIA HARBOROUGH.  
  Cecilia passed a sleepless and agitated night.  
  Wild hopes and undefined fears had banished repose from her pillow.  
  She thought the morning would never come.  
  At length the first gleam of dawn struggled through the windows of her bed-room; and she
      instantly arose.  
  She was pale—yet fearfully excited; and there was a wildness in her eyes which denoted the
      most cruel suspense.  
  The minutes seemed to be hours; for she was now anxiously awaiting the arrival of the
      morning paper.  
  She descended to the breakfast parlour; but the repast remained untouched.  
  At length the well-known knock of the news-boy at the front door echoed through the
      house.  
  The moment the journal was placed on the table by her side, Cecilia took it up with
      trembling hands, and cast a hasty glance over its contents.  
  In another instant all suspense relative to the rector's fate ceased.  
  The following words settled that point beyond a doubt:—  
  
  "SUICIDE OF THE REV. REGINALD TRACY.  
  "Shortly after eight o'clock last evening a rumour was in circulation, to the effect that
       the above-mentioned individual, whose name has so recently been brought before the public in
       connection with the murder of Matilda Kenrick, had put a period to his existence by means of
       poison. It appears that the turnkey, on visiting his cell, according to custom, at eight
       o'clock, found him stretched upon the floor, to all appearances quite dead. Medical aid was
       immediately procured; but life was pronounced by the gaol-surgeon to be totally extinct. We
       have been unable to learn any further particulars."    
  "It is better so, than to die upon the scaffold," said Cecilia to herself. "Now to the
      lawyer's: Reginald expressly told me that I was to call upon him this morning."  
  The heartless woman did not drop a tear nor heave a sigh to the memory of her paramour.  
  She rang the bell and desired the servant to fetch a cab without delay.  
  By the time it arrived Cecilia was ready.  
  During the rapid drive to the City, she arranged a thousand plans for the employment and
      enjoyment of the wealth which she believed herself to be now entitled to, and the bequest of
      which she was resolved to conceal from her husband.  
  When she alighted at the solicitor's door, she assumed a melancholy and solemn air, which
      she thought decorous under the circumstances.  
  The solicitor, who was an elderly man, and whose name was Wharton, received her in his
      private office, and politely inquired the nature of her business.  
  "Did you not expect a visit from Lady Cecilia Harborough this morning?" asked the frail
      woman.  
  "Lady Cecilia Harborough!" exclaimed the lawyer, his countenance assuming a severe tone the
      moment that name fell upon his ears. "Are you Lady Cecilia Harborough?"  
  "I am Lady Cecilia Harborough," was the reply.  
  "So young—and yet so powerful to work evil!" observed Mr. Wharton, in a musing tone, and
      with a sorrowful air.  
  "I do not understand you, sir," exclaimed Cecilia somewhat alarmed, yet affecting a haughty
      and offended manner.  
  "Do not aggravate your wickedness by means of falsehood," said the lawyer sternly. "Think
      you that I am a stranger to your connexion with that unhappy man who died by his own hands
      last night? I have known him for many years—I knew him when he was pure, honourable, and
      respected: I have seen him the inmate of a dungeon. The day before yesterday I was with him
      for the last time. He then revealed to me every particular connected with his fall. He told me
      how you practised your syren arts upon him—how you led him on, until he became an adulterer!
      He explained to me how he repented of his first weakness, and how you practised a vile—a
      detestable artifice, by the aid of an old hag in Golden Lane, to bring him back to your
      arms."  
  "Spare me this recital, sir, which has been so highly coloured to my prejudice," exclaimed
      Lady Cecilia. "I confess that I was enamoured of that unhappy man; but——"  
  "You cannot palliate your wickedness, madam," interrupted Mr. Wharton, sternly. "Mr. Tracy
      detailed to me every blandishment you used—every art you called into force to subdue him. And
      as for   your   love for him, Lady Cecilia Harborough—even that excuse cannot be advanced
      in extenuation of your infamy."  
  "Sir—that is a harsh word!" cried Cecilia, red with indignation, and starting upon her
      chair.  
  "Nay, madam—sit still," continued the solicitor: "you may yet hear harsher terms
      from my lips. I say that you cannot even plead a profound and sincere attachment to that man
      as an excuse for the arts which you practised to ensnare and ruin him:—no, madam—it was his
      gold which you coveted!"  
  "Sir—I will hear no more—I——"  
  "Your ladyship must hear me out," interrupted the lawyer, authoritatively motioning her to
      retain her seat. "When alone in his gloomy cell, your victim pondered upon all that had passed
      between him and you, until he came to a full and entire comprehension of the utter hollowness
      of your heart. He then understood how he had been duped and deluded by you! Moreover, madam,
      it was by your desire that he admitted you into his own house—that fatal indiscretion which,
      being often repeated, at length led to the terrible catastrophe. Now, then, madam," cried Mr.
      Wharton, raising his voice, "who was the real cause of my friend's downfall? who was the
      origin of his ruin? who, in a word, is the murderess of Reginald Tracy?"  
  "My God!" ejaculated the wretched woman, quivering like an aspen beneath these appalling
      denunciations; "you are very severe—too, too harsh upon me, sir!"  
  "No, madam," resumed the lawyer; "I am merely placing your conduct in its true light, and
      giving your deeds their proper name. You had no mercy upon my unfortunate friend;—you
      sacrificed him to your base lust after gold;—you hurried him on to his doom. Why should I
      spare you? You have no claims upon my forbearance as a woman—because, madam, your unmitigated
      wickedness debars you from the privilege of your sex. To show courtesy to you, would be to
      encourage crime of the most abhorrent nature."  
  "Was it to be thus upbraided, sir—thus reviled," demanded Lady Cecilia, endeavouring to
      recover her self-possession, "that I was desired to call upon you this morning?"  
  "Desired to call upon me, madam!" exclaimed the solicitor: "who conveyed to you such
      instructions?"  
  "Mr. Tracy himself," answered Cecilia in a faint tone—for she now trembled lest Reginald had
      deceived her.  
  "Then my poor friend must have been aware of the reception which you would meet at my
      hands—of the stern truths that you would hear from my lips," said Mr. Wharton; "for to no
      other purpose could this visit have been designed."  
  "But—are there no written instructions—with which you may be as yet unacquainted—no papers,
      the contents of which you have not read——"  
  "Madam, I am at a loss to comprehend you," said the lawyer. "If you allude to any papers of
      Mr. Tracy's now in my hands, I can assure you that they bear no reference to any affairs in
      which you can possibly be interested."  
  "And you have read   all   those papers—every one—  the last   that was placed in
      your hands, as well as any others?" inquired Cecilia, in a tone of breathless excitement.  
  "Merciful heavens, madam!" ejaculated the lawyer, on whose mind a light seemed suddenly to
      break: "surely—surely   you   cannot be in expectation of a legacy or a boon from that
      man whom you hurried to his ruin—aye, even to murder and suicide? Surely your presumption is
      not so boundless as all that?"  
  Cecilia sank back, almost fainting in her chair: her sole hope was now annihilated; and in
      its stead there remained to her only the bitter—bitter conviction that she had been deceived
      by Reginald in that last transaction which took place between them.  
  "No, madam—no," continued the lawyer, with a smile of the most cutting contempt: "if that
      unhappy man had bequeathed you any thing, it would have been his curse—his withering, dying
      curse!"  
  "Oh! do not say   that  ," screamed Cecilia, now really appalled by the energetic
      language of that man who was so unsparing in his duty to the memory of his friend.  
  "Ah! I am rejoiced that your ladyship at last feels the full force of that infamy which has
      accomplished the ruin of a man once so good, so upright, so honourable, so happy! But you are,
      no doubt, curious to know how your victim has disposed of that wealth of which you would have
      plundered him had he not been so suddenly stopped in his mad career? I will tell you. He has
      bequeathed it to that young girl who so nearly suffered for   his   crime—to Katherine
      Wilmot, who was so unjustly accused of the enormity which   he   perpetrated!"  
  Lady Cecilia wept with rage, shame, and disappointment.  
  "Weep, madam, weep," rang the iron voice of that stern denunciator once more in her ears:
      "weep—for you have good cause! Not for the wealth of the universe would I harbour the feelings
      which ought to be—  must   be yours at this moment."  
  A pause ensued, which was interrupted by the entrance of a clerk who whispered something in
      the lawyer's ear, and then withdrew.  
  "I request your ladyship to have the goodness to remain here until my return," said Mr.
      Wharton. "I shall not keep you long."  
  The lawyer passed into the outer office; and Cecilia was now alone.  
  The reader can scarcely require to be reminded that this lady was not one who was likely to
      remain long depressed by a moral lesson, however severe its nature.  
  Scarcely had the lawyer left her, when she raised her head, and thought within herself, "I
      have been deceived—cruelly deceived; and if I did Reginald any wrong, he is amply avenged. One
      thing seems certain—he has retained the secret of the means by which he obtained the poison.
      He has not compromised me there; or else this harsh man would have been only too glad to throw
         that   also in my teeth. Thus, my position might have been worse!"  
  Such was the substance of Lady Cecilia Harborough's musing during the absence of the
      lawyer.  
  This absence lasted nearly a quarter of an hour; and then he returned to the office.  
  He held an open letter in his hand.  
  "Lady Cecilia Harborough," he said, in a tone of increased sternness, "the measure of your
      guilt is now so full, that justice demands an explanation at your hands."  
  "Justice, sir!" faltered the frail woman, an icy coldness striking to her heart.  
  "Yes, madam," answered the lawyer; "and even from the grave will the wrongs of Reginald
      Tracy cry out against you."  
  "My God! what do you mean?" she exclaimed, her pallor now becoming actually livid.  
  hurried him to his last account," continued the solicitor in a low and solemn
      tone, "he wrote two letters. These were found upon the table in his cell. One was to Katherine
      Wilmot—the other was to me. The governor of Newgate has just been with me, and has delivered
      to me this last communication from my poor friend."  
  "The governor of Newgate!" repeated Cecilia, now overwhelmed with vague terrors.  
  "Yes, madam: and the contents are to inform me that you—  you  , madam, with an assumed
      name, and passing yourself off as Mr. Tracy's sister, visited him twice in his cell, and, on
      the latter occasion, furnished him with the means of self-destruction."  
  "Heaven protect me! it is but too true!" cried Cecilia; and, throwing herself upon her knees
      before the lawyer, she almost shrieked the words, "You would not give me up to justice,
      sir—you will not betray me?"  
  "No, madam," answered Mr. Wharton; "I had punished you sufficiently when these tidings
      arrived."  
  "Thank you, sir—thank you," cried Cecilia, rising from her knees. "But the governor of
      Newgate——"  
  "Is gone, madam. I did not tell him that you were here. I must, however, warn you that I
      communicated to him, as in duty bound, the contents of this letter."  
  "Then he is aware that I——"  
  "He is aware that you conveyed the poison to Reginald Tracy; and the officers of justice
      will be in search of you in another hour," replied the lawyer, coldly.  
  "My God! what will become of me?" ejaculated Cecilia, now pushed to an extremity which she
      never had contemplated.  
  "I would not say that you were here, madam," continued the lawyer, "because Reginald Tracy
      had contemplated making me the means of handing you over to the grasp of justice; and I am
      sorry that he should so far have misunderstood me. I now comprehend why he directed you to
      come hither. He thought that his letter would reach me earlier—before you came, and that I
      should be the willing instrument of his vengeance. I will not show you the letter, because he
      has mistaken me—he has misunderstood me; and for this reason alone—and for no merciful feeling
      towards   you  —have I shielded you thus far. Now go, madam: when once you are away from
      this house, you must adopt the best measures you can devise to ensure your safety."  
  "But can you not counsel me, sir—will you not direct me how to act?" cried Cecilia: "I am
      bewildered—I know not what step to take!"  
  "I have no counsel to offer, madam," returned the lawyer, briefly.  
  Cecilia could not mistake the meaning conveyed by this tone.  
  She rose; and bowing in a constrained manner to the solicitor, left the office.  
  But when she found herself in the street, she was cruelly embarrassed how to act.  
  She dared not return home; the paternal door had long been closed against her; she had not a
      friend—and she had not a resource.  
  A few sovereigns in her purse were all her available means.  
  She thought of quitting the country at once, and proceeding to join her husband, whom she
      knew to be in Paris.  
  But how would he receive her? The newspapers would soon be busy with her name; and Sir
      Rupert was not the man to burden himself with a woman penniless in purse and ruined in
      reputation.  
  For an instant she thought of Greenwood; but this idea was discarded almost as soon as
      entertained. She was aware of his utter heartlessness, and felt confident that he would
      repulse her coldly from his dwelling.  
  To whom could she apply? whither was she to betake herself?  
  And yet concealment was necessary—oh! she must hide somewhere!  
  The feelings of this woman were terrible beyond description.  
  And now she was walking rapidly along the streets towards London Bridge; for the idea of
      quitting the country was uppermost in her mind.  
  Her veil was drawn carefully over her countenance; and yet she trembled at every policeman
      whom she passed.  
  She was hurrying down Gracechurch Street, when she heard herself called by name.  
  She knew the voice, and turned round, saying to herself, "Help may come from this
      quarter!"  
  It was the old hag who had spoken to her.  
  "My good woman," said Lady Cecilia hastily, "all is known—all is discovered!"  
  "What is known?" asked the old hag, in her usual imperturbable tone.  
  "It is known that I conveyed the poison, which   you   procured for me, to Reginald
      Tracy," replied Cecilia, in a hoarse whisper. "You have heard that he is dead?"  
  "I heard   that   last evening," said the hag. "What are you going to do?"  
  "To hide myself from the officers of justice," returned Cecilia. "But step into this court,
      or we shall be observed."  
  The old woman followed the unhappy lady under an archway.  
  "I must conceal myself—at least for the present," resumed Cecilia. "Will you grant me an
      asylum?"  
  "I! my dear lady!" ejaculated the hag, shaking her head ominously: "I am in danger myself—I
      am in danger myself! Did I not procure you the poison?"  
  "True. But I would not betray you."  
  "No—we must each shift for ourselves—we must each shift for ourselves, as best we can,"
      replied the hag flatly. "Indeed, I may as well remind you, Lady Cecilia, that your day is
      gone—you are ruined—and, if you had any spirit, you would not survive it!"  
  "My God! what do you mean?" faltered Cecilia, in a faint tone.  
  "The river is deep, or the Monument is high," answered the hag, in a significant tone; "and
      you are near both!"  
  The wrinkled old harridan then hobbled out of the court as quickly as her rheumatic limbs
      would carry her.  
  "Even   she   deserts me!" murmured Cecilia to herself, and with difficulty suppressing
      an ebullition of feeling which would have attracted notice, and probably led to her detection:
      "even   she  me! My God—is there nothing left to me but suicide? No—nothing!"  
  Her countenance wore, beneath her veil, an expression of blank despair, as she arrived at
      this appalling conviction; and for some moments she stood as if rooted to the spot.  
  "No—nothing left but   that  ," she murmured, awaking from her temporary stupefaction:
      "nothing—nothing!"  
  And although these words were uttered in the lowest whisper, still it seemed as if she
      shrieked them   within herself  .  
  Then she hurried from the court.  
  "The river—or the Monument," she said, as she continued her rapid way: "the river is
      near—but the Monument is nearer. Drowning must be slow and painful—  the other   will be
      instantaneous. From the river I might be rescued; but no human power can snatch me from death
      during a fall from that dizzy height."  
  And she glanced upwards to the colossal pillar whose base she had now reached.  
  At that moment two men, evidently belonging to the working classes, passed her.  
  A portion of their conversation met her ears.  
  "And so she was not his sister, then?" said one.  
  "No such thing," replied the other. "I heard the governor of Newgate tell all about it to
      one of the City officers scarcely half an hour ago. The governor was coming out of a lawyer's
      house—Tracy's lawyer, I believe—and the City officer was waiting for him at the door. He then
      told him that it was a lady of fashion—with a name something like Cecilia Scarborough, I
      think——"  
  The men were now too far for the wretched woman to hear any more of their conversation.  
  "Merciful heavens!" she said, scarcely able to prevent herself from wringing her hands;
      "even at this moment I am not safe!"  
  Then, without farther hesitation, she passed round the base of the Monument, and crossed the
      threshold.  
  "Sixpence, if you please, ma'am," said the man who received the fees from visitors.  
  Lady Cecilia exercised an almost superhuman power over her distracted feelings, so as to
      appear composed, while she drew forth the coin from her purse.  
  "It's a fine day to view London, ma'am," said the man, as he took the money.  
  "Beautiful," answered Cecilia.  
  She then began the tedious ascent.  
  And now what awful emotions laboured in her breast as she toiled up that winding
      staircase.  
  "My God! my God!" she murmured to herself; "is it indeed come to this?"  
  Once she was compelled to stop and lean against the wall for support.  
  Then she wrung her hands in agony—indescribable agony of mind.  
  "And yet there is no alternative!" she thought; "none—none! But my mother—my poor mother!
      what will be her feelings? Oh! better to know that I am dead, than an inmate of Newgate!"  
  And, somewhat encouraged in her dreadful purpose by this idea, she pursued her way.  
  In a few moments the fresh air blew in her face.  
  She was near the top!  
  A dozen more steps—and the brilliant sun-light burst upon her eyes.  
  It was indeed a lovely morning; and the Thames appeared like a huge serpent of quicksilver,
      meandering its way amidst the myriads of buildings that stretched on either side, far as the
      eye could reach.  
  The din of the huge city reached the ears of the wretched woman who now stood upon that
      tremendous eminence.  
  All was life—bustle—business—activity below!  
  And above was the serene blue sky of an early spring, illuminated by the bright and
      cloudless sun.  
  "But yesterday," thought Cecilia, as she surveyed the exciting scene spread beneath her,
      "had any one said to me, '  Thou wilt seek death to-morrow  ,' I should have ridiculed
      the idea. And yet it has come to this! Oh! it is hard to quit this world of pleasure—to leave
      that city of enjoyment! Never more to behold that gorgeous sun—never more to hear those busy
      sounds! But if I hesitate, my heart will turn coward; and then—Newgate—Newgate!"  
  These last words were uttered aloud in the shrill and piercing tones of despair.  
  She clasped her hands together, and prayed for a few moments.  
  Then, as if acting by a sudden impulse,—as if afraid to trust herself with the thoughts that
      were crowding into her mind,—she placed her hands upon the railing.  
  One leap—and she stood upon the rail.  
  For a single instant she seemed as if she would fall backwards upon the platform of the
      Monument; and her arms were agitated convulsively, like the motions of one who endeavours to
      gain a lost balance.  
  Then she sprang forwards.  
  Terrific screams burst from her lips as she rolled over and over in her precipitate
      whirl.  
  Down she fell!  
  Her head dashed against the pavement, at a distance of three yards from the base of the
      Monument.  
  Her brains were scattered upon the stones.  
  She never moved from the moment she touched the ground:—the once gay, sprightly, beautiful
      patrician lady was no more!  
  A crowd instantaneously collected around her; and horror was depicted on every countenance,
      save one, that gazed upon the sad spectacle.  
  And that one wretch who showed no feeling, was the old hag of Golden Lane.  
  "She cannot now betray me for procuring the poison," thought the vile harridan, as she
      calmly contemplated the mangled corpse at her feet.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXII.   THE BEQUEST.  
  Two days after the suicide of Lady Cecilia Harborough,—an event which created a profound
      sensation in the fashionable world, and plunged the Tremordyn family into mourning,—Richard
      Markham was a passenger in a coach that passed through Hounslow.  
  At this town he alighted, and inquired the way to the residence of Mr. Bennet, a small
      farmer in the neighbourhood.  
  country which already bore signs of the genial influence of an early spring,
      Richard found himself at the gate of a comfortable-looking farm-house.  
  He dismissed his guide with a gratuity, and was shortly admitted by a buxom servant-girl
      into a neat little parlour, where he was presently joined by Katherine.  
  The young maiden was rejoiced to see her benefactor; and tears started into her eyes, though
      her lips were wreathed in smiles;—but they were tears of pleasure and gratitude.  
  "This is kind of you, Mr. Markham," she said, as he shook her hand with friendly warmth.  
  "I am come to see you upon important business, Katherine," observed Richard. "But first let
      me inquire after the good people with whom you reside?"  
  "I am sorry to say," answered Katherine, "that Mrs. Bennet experienced a relapse after her
      return from London; and she is not able to leave her chamber. She is, however, much better.
      Her husband is a kind-hearted, good man, and he behaves like a father to me. He is now
      occupied with the business of his farm, but will be in presently."  
  "And now, Katherine, listen to the tidings which I have to communicate," said Markham. "Have
      you received any news from London within the last day or two?"  
  "No—not a word," returned Katherine, already alarmed lest some new misfortune was about to
      be announced to her.  
  "Compose yourself," said Richard; "the news that I have for you are good. But first I must
      inform you that your late master, Mr. Reginald Tracy, is no more."  
  "Dead!" exclaimed Katherine.  
  "He put a period to his own existence," continued Markham; "but not before he made you all
      the amends in his power for the deep injury which his own guilt entailed upon you."  
  "Then he confessed his crime, and thus established my innocence beyond all doubt?" said
      Katherine.  
  "And he has bequeathed to you his whole fortune, with the exception of a small legacy to
      Mrs. Bennet, whom his guilt deprived of a sister," added our hero.  
  "Oh! then he died penitent!" exclaimed Katherine, weeping—for her goodness of heart prompted
      her to shed tears even for one who had involved her in such a labyrinth of misery as that from
      which she had only so recently been extricated.  
  "He died by his own hands," said Richard; "and the world will not generally admit that such
      an act can be consonant with sincere penitence. That he attempted to make his peace with
      heaven ere he rushed into the presence of the Almighty, let us hope:—that he did all he could
      to recompense those whom his crime had injured, is apparent. But this letter will probably
      tell you more on that head."  
  Richard handed to Katherine a letter, as he uttered these words.  
  It was addressed, "  Miss Katherine Wilmot  ."  
  With a trembling hand the young girl opened it; and with tearful eyes she read the following
      words:—  
  "To you, Katherine Wilmot, a man about to appear before his Maker appeals for pardon. That
      man is deeply imbued with a sense of the injury—the almost irreparable injury which his
      enormous guilt caused you to sustain. But in confessing that this guilt was all and solely his
      own,—in proclaiming your complete innocence,—and in offering you the means of henceforth
      enjoying independence, and fulfilling the dictates of your charitable disposition,—that great
      criminal entertains a hope that you will accord him your forgiveness, and that you will
      appreciate his anxiety to do you justice in his last moments. My solicitor is already
      acquainted with my intentions; and he will faithfully execute my wishes. This letter will be
      forwarded to him, to be delivered to you, through your benefactor—that noble-hearted young
      man, Mr. Richard Markham. The bulk of my fortune, amounting to eighteen thousand pounds, I
      have made over to my solicitor in trust for yourself, and under certain conditions which I
      have devised exclusively for your benefit. The sum of five hundred pounds I have, in addition,
      bequeathed to Rachel Bennet, with the hope that she will extend   her   pardon also to
      the man who deprived her of an affectionate sister. This letter is written in a hurried
      manner, and under circumstances whose appalling nature you may well conceive. May heaven bless
      you! Refuse not to pray for the soul of  
    "REGINALD TRACY."    
  Katherine perused this letter, and then handed it to Richard Markham.  
  While he read it, the young maiden prayed inwardly but sincerely for the eternal welfare of
      him whose course had been dazzling like a meteor, but had terminated in a cloud of appalling
      blackness.  
  "Those conditions, to which the unhappy man alluded, I can explain to you," said Richard,
      after a long interval of silence, during which he allowed Katherine to compose her thoughts.
      "This letter was placed in the hands of Mr. Tracy's solicitor, by the governor of Newgate, the
      day before yesterday. The lawyer immediately wrote to me, being unacquainted with your
      address. I saw him yesterday afternoon; and he gave me the letter to convey to you, entrusting
      me at the same time with the duty of communicating to you this last act of Reginald Tracy. Mr.
      Wharton acquainted me with the conditions which Mr. Tracy had named. These are that you shall
      enjoy the interest of the money until you attain the age of twenty-one, when the capital shall
      be placed at your whole and sole disposal; but should you marry previous to that period, then
      the capital may also be transferred to your name. And now I must touch upon a more delicate
      point—inasmuch as it alludes to myself. Mr. Tracy was pleased to place such confidence in me,
      as to have stipulated that should you contract any marriage previous to the attainment of the
      age of twenty-one, without my approval of the individual on whom you may settle your
      affections, you will then forfeit all right and title to the fortune, which is in that case to
      be devoted to purposes of charity specified in the instructions given by Mr. Tracy to his
      solicitor."  
  "Oh! I should never think of taking any step—however trivial, or however important—without
      consulting you, as my benefactor—my saviour!" exclaimed Katherine.  
  "You are a good and a grateful girl, Katherine," said Richard; "and never for a moment did I
      mistake your excellent heart—never did I lose my confidence in your discretion and
      virtue."  
  "No—for when all the world deserted me," said the maiden, "you befriended me!"  
  Old Bailey, after you had departed with Mrs. Bennet, had induced him to reflect
      more seriously upon the course of life which he had been for years pursuing."  
  "Oh! these news are welcome—welcome indeed!" ejaculated Katherine, clasping her hands
      together in token of gratitude.  
  "I communicated to him your good fortune, Katherine," proceeded Markham; "and he wept like a
      child."  
  "Poor uncle! His heart was not altogether closed against me!" murmured Katherine.  
  "I desired him to call upon me to-morrow, and I assured him that in the meantime I would
      devise some project by which he should be enabled to earn a livelihood whereof he need not be
      ashamed."  
  "You are not content with being my benefactor, Mr. Markham: you intend to make my relatives
      adore your name!" cried Katherine, her heart glowing with gratitude towards our hero.  
  "I now intend that   you   shall be the means of doing good, Katherine," said Richard,
      with a smile.  
  "Oh! tell me how!" exclaimed the amiable girl, joyfully.  
  "You shall draw upon the first year's interest of your fortune, for a sufficient sum to
      enable your uncle to retire to some distant town, where, under another name, he may commence a
      business at whose nature he will not be forced to blush."  
  "Oh! that proposal is indeed a source of indescribable happiness to me," said Katherine.  
  "Then I will carry the plan into effect to-morrow," continued Richard. "Your uncle and
      cousin shall both visit you here, when they leave London."  
  "Poor John!" said Katherine. "Do you think that his father——"  
  "Will treat him better in future?" added Markham, seeing that the maiden hesitated. "Yes: I
      will answer for it! A complete change has taken place in your uncle: he is another man."  
  "He contemplated your benevolence, and he could not do otherwise than be struck by the
      example," said Kate.  
  "I asked him if he desired you to live with him in future; and he replied, '  Not for
       worlds!  ' He then continued to say that dwell where he might, conceal his name how he
      would, there would be danger of his ancient calling transpiring; and he would not incur the
      chance of involving you in the disgrace that might ensue. This consideration on his part
      speaks volumes in favour of that change which has been effected within him."  
  "The tidings you have brought me concerning my uncle, Mr. Markham," said Katherine, "far
      outweigh in my estimation the news of my good fortune."  
  "Your uncle and your cousin will yet be happy—no doubt," observed Richard. "In reference to
      yourself, what course would you like to adopt? Would you wish me to seek some respectable and
      worthy family in London, with whom you can take up your abode in entire independence?
      or——"  
  "Oh! no—not London!" exclaimed Katherine, recoiling from the name in horror.  
  "My counsel is that you remain here—in this seclusion,—at least for the present," said
      Richard. "The tranquillity of this rural dwelling—the charms of the country—the
      unsophisticated manners of these good people, will restore your mind to its former composure,
      after all you have passed through."  
  "This advice I have every inclination to follow," said Katherine; "and even were I otherwise
      disposed—which I could not be—your counsel would at once decide me."  
  "Remember, Katherine," resumed Markham, "I do not wish you to pass the best portion of your
      youth in this retirement. With your fortune and brilliant prospect, such a proceeding were
      unnatural—absurd. I only feel desirous that for a short time you should remain afar from
      society—until recent events shall be forgotten, and until your own mind shall become calm and
      relieved from the excitement which past misfortunes have been so painfully calculated to
      produce."  
  "I will remain here until you tell me that it is good for me to go elsewhere," said
      Katherine.  
  At this moment an old man, dressed in a rustic garb, but with a good-natured countenance and
      venerable white hair, entered the room.  
  This was the farmer himself.  
  Katherine introduced Richard to him as her benefactor; and the old man shook hands with our
      hero in a cordial manner, saying at the same time, "By all I have heard Miss Kate tell of you,
      sir, you must be an honour to any house, whether rich or poor, that you condescend to
      visit."  
  Richard thanked the good-natured rustic for the well-meant compliment, and then communicated
      to him the fact that his wife was entitled to a legacy of five hundred pounds, which would be
      paid to her order in the course of a few days.  
  The old man was overjoyed at these tidings, although his countenance partially fell when he
      heard the source whence the bequest emanated; but Richard convinced him that it would be
      unwise and absurd to refuse it.  
  Mr. Bennet hastened up-stairs to communicate the news to his wife.  
  While he was absent, the farmer's servant-girl entered to spread the table for the
      afternoon's repast.  
  On the return of the old man to the room, the dinner was served up; and our hero sat down to
      table with the farmer and Katherine.  
  A happy meal was that; and in the pure felicity which Katherine now enjoyed, Richard beheld
      to a considerable extent the results of his own goodness. How amply did the spectacle of that
      young creature's happiness reward him for all that he had done in her behalf!  
  It was four o'clock in the afternoon when our hero took his leave of the old farmer and Miss
      Wilmot, in order to retrace his steps to Hounslow.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXIII.   THE ZINGAREES.  
  The old farmer had offered to convey Richard to Hounslow in his own spring-cart, or to
      provide him with a guide to conduct him thither; but our hero felt so confident of being
      enabled to find his way back to the town, that he declined both offers.  
  intent upon these topics, that some time elapsed ere he perceived that he had
      fallen into a wrong path.  
  He looked around; but not an object of which he had taken notice in the morning, when
      proceeding to the farm, could he now discover.  
  Thus he had lost the only means which could assist his memory in regaining the road.  
  As he stood upon a little eminence, gazing around to find some clue towards the proper
      direction which he should follow, a light blue wreath of smoke, rising from behind a hill at a
      short distance, met his eyes.  
  "There must be a dwelling yonder," he said to himself; "I will proceed thither, and ask my
      way; or, if possible, obtain a guide."  
  Towards the light blue cloud which curled upwards, Markham directed his steps; but when he
      reached the brow of the hill, from the opposite side of which the smoke at first met his eye,
      he perceived, instead of a cottage as he expected, an encampment of gipsies.  
  A covered van stood near the spot where two men, two women, and a boy were partaking of a
      meal, the steam of which impregnated the air with a powerful odour of onions.  
  The caldron, whence the mess was served up in earthenware vessels, was suspended by means of
      stakes over a cheerful wood-fire.  
  We need attempt no description of the persons of those who were partaking of the repast: it
      will be sufficient to inform the reader that they consisted of King Zingary, Queen Aischa,
      Morcar, Eva, and this latter couple's son.  
  They were, however, totally unknown to Richard: but the moment he saw they were of the gipsy
      tribe, he determined to glean from them any thing which they might know and might choose to
      reveal concerning the Resurrection Man.  
  He therefore accosted them in a civil manner, and, stating that he had lost his way,
      inquired which was the nearest path to Hounslow.  
  "It would be difficult to direct you, young gentleman, by mere explanation," answered
      Zingary, stroking his long white beard in order to impress Richard with a sense of veneration;
      "but my grandson here shall show you the way with pleasure."  
  "That I will, sir," exclaimed the boy, starting from the ground, and preparing to set
      off.  
  "But perhaps the gentleman will rest himself, and partake of some refreshment," observed
      Morcar.  
  "If you will permit me," said Markham, whose purpose this invitation just suited, "I will
      warm myself for a short space by your cheerful fire; for the evening is chilly. But you must
      not consider me rude if I decline your kind hospitality in respect to food."  
  "The gentleman is cold, Morcar," said Zingary: "produce the rum, and hand a snicker."  
  The King's son hastened to the van to fetch the bottle of spirits; and Markham could not
      help observing his fine, tall, well-knit frame, to which his dark Roman countenance gave an
      additional air of manliness—even of heroism.  
  Richard partook of the spirits, in order to ingratiate himself with the gipsies; and King
      Zingary then called for his "broseley."  
  "You appear to lead a happy life," observed Richard, by way of encouraging a
      conversation.  
  "We are our own masters, young gentleman," answered Zingary; "and where there is freedom,
      there is happiness."  
  "Is it true that your race is governed by a King?" asked Markham.  
  "I am the King of the united races of Bohemians and Egyptians," said Zingary, in a stately
      manner. "This is my beloved Queen, Aischa: that is my son, Morcar; here is my daughter-in-law,
      Eva; and that lad is my grandson."  
  Richard started when these names fell upon his ears; for they had been mentioned to him by
      Skilligalee in the Palace of the Holy Land. He also remembered to have been informed that it
      was in consequence of something which the Resurrection Man told Aischa, when she was attending
      to his wound, that the gipsies took him with them when they removed from the Palace to the
      encampment near the Penitentiary at Pentonville.  
  "I feel highly honoured by the hospitality which your Majesty has afforded me," said
      Richard, with a bow—an act of courtesy which greatly pleased King Zingary. "On one occasion I
      was indebted to some of your subjects for a night's lodging at your establishment in St.
      Giles's."  
  "Indeed!" exclaimed the King; and now all the gipsies surveyed Richard with some
      interest.  
  "Yes," continued our hero; "and I may as well state to you frankly and candidly under what
      circumstances I became your guest—for   you   were all inmates of the house at the time I
      entered it."  
  "Speak, young gentleman," said Zingary: "we will listen with attention to all you may please
      to tell us; but we do not seek your confidence of our own accord, as curiosity is forbidden to
      our race."  
  "I must inform you," resumed Richard, "that I have sustained great and signal injuries at
      the hands of a miscreant, whom I one night traced to your dwelling in St. Giles's."  
  "Call it the Palace, young gentleman," said Zingary, smoking his pipe, and listening with
      great complacency.  
  "On that night, the man to whom I allude was desperately wounded——"  
  "Ah!" ejaculated the gipsies, as it were in a breath.  
  "And you removed him with you, away from the Palace during the night—or rather very early in
      the morning."  
  "Then you, young gentleman," said the King, "were the stranger whom the porter locked in the
      room to which you were shown, and who escaped from the Palace by some means or other? The
      matter was duly reported to us by letter."  
  "It is perfectly true that I liberated myself from the room in which I was imprisoned," said
      Markham. "But, answer me—I implore you—one question; did that vile man die of the wound which
      he received?"  
  "Before I reply to you," observed Zingary, "you will have the goodness to inform me why you
      left the Palace by stealth on that occasion, and whether you saw or heard any thing remarkable
         after   we had taken our departure?"  
  "I will answer you frankly," returned Markham. "I left my room on that occasion, because I
      wished to discover whether Anthony Tidkins, to whom I have alluded, was in the house——"  
  "The Palace," said Zingary.  
  or less instrumental in releasing from a horrible dungeon a poor woman——"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "We know whom you mean," interrupted Zingary, sternly. "Did you see a tall young man——"  
  "Who called himself by the strange name of Skilligalee?" added Markham, concluding the
      King's question for him. "I did;—I helped him to release that woman he named Margaret."  
  "And whom the laws of the Zingarees had condemned to the penalty from which you freed her,"
      said the King. "Was it right, young man, thus to step between the culprit and the decree of
      justice?"  
  "I acted in accordance with the dictates of humanity," replied Richard firmly; "and under
      such circumstances I should act in a similar way again."  
  "The young gentleman speaks well," said Morcar, who admired the resolution evinced in our
      hero's tone and manner.  
  "And he showed a good heart," observed Eva, now speaking for the first time since Richard's
      arrival, and displaying her brilliant teeth.  
  "Well—well," exclaimed Zingary: "I will not upbraid the young man more, since even my pretty
      Eva takes his part. You see," he continued, addressing himself especially to the gipsies, "it
      is as we thought. Skilligalee deserted us in order to liberate Margaret Flathers. I always
      believed that such was the case, from the moment we received the account of her escape. But I
      have one more question to ask our guest. Let him satisfy us how he traced Anthony Tidkins
         to   the Palace, and how he learnt that Anthony Tidkins was wounded   in   the
      Palace."  
  "On that head I must remain silent," said Richard. "I will not invent a falsehood, and I
      cannot reveal the truth. Be you, however, well assured that I never betrayed the secrets and
      mysteries of your establishment in Saint Giles's."  
  "Our guest is an honourable man," observed Morcar. "We ought to be satisfied with what he
      says."  
  "I am satisfied," exclaimed the King. "Aischa, answer you the questions which it is now the
      young man's turn to put to us."  
  "I wish to know whether Anthony Tidkins died of the wound which he received?" said
      Richard.  
  "It was my lot to attend to his wound," began Aischa. "When he was so far
      recovered as to be able to speak—which was about half an hour after the blood was stanched—he
      implored me to have him removed from the Palace. He told me a long and pathetic story of
      persecutions and sufferings which he had undergone; and he offered to enrich our treasury if
      we would take him beyond the reach of the person who had wounded him. His anxiety to get away
      was extreme; and it was in consequence of his representations and promises that I prevailed
      upon the King to issue orders to those who were to leave London with us, to hurry the
      departure as much as possible. That accounts for the abrupt manner in which we left at such an
      hour, and for the removal of the wounded man with us. In answer to your direct question, I
      must inform you that he did   not   die of the wound which he received."  
  "He did   not   die!" repeated Markham. "Then he is still alive—and doubtless as active
      as ever in purposes of evil."  
  "Is he such a bad man?" asked Aischa.  
  "He belongs to the atrocious gang called   Burkers  ," answered Richard
      emphatically.  
  "Merciful heavens!" cried Eva, with a shudder. "To think that we should have harboured such
      a wretch!"  
  "And to think that I should have devoted my skill to resuscitate such a demon!" exclaimed
      Aischa.  
  "The vengeance of the Zingarees will yet overtake him," said the King calmly.  
  "Wherever I meet him, there will I punish him with the stoutest cudgel that I can find ready
      to hand," cried Morcar, with a fierce air.  
  "Have you then cause to complain against him?" asked Richard.  
  "The wretch, sir," answered Morcar, "remained nearly a month in our company, until his wound
      was completely healed by the skill of my mother. We treated him with as much kindness as if he
      had been our near and dear relative. One morning, when he was totally recovered, he
      disappeared, carrying away my father's gold with him."  
  "The ungrateful villain!" ejaculated Richard. "And he was indebted to your kindness for his
      life?"  
  "He was," returned Morcar." Fortunately there was but little in the treasury at the
      time—very little;—nevertheless, it was all we had—and he took our all."  
  "And you have no trace of him?" said Richard, eagerly.  
  "Not yet," replied Morcar. "But we have adopted measures to discover him. The King my father
      has sent a description of his person and the history of his treachery to every chief of our
      race in the kingdom; and thousands of sharp eyes are on the look-out for him through the
      length and breadth of the land."  
  "Heaven be thanked!" exclaimed Markham. "But when you discover him, hand him over to the
      grasp of justice, and instantly acquaint me with the fact."  
  "The Zingarees recognise no justice save their own," said the King, in a dignified manner.
      "But this much I promise you, that the moment we obtain a trace of his whereabouts, we will
      communicate it to you, and you may act as seemeth good to yourself. We have no sympathy in
      common with a cowardly murderer."  
  "None," added Morcar, emphatically.  
  "I thank you for this promise," said Richard, addressing himself to the King. "Here is my
      card; and remember that as anxious as I am to bring a miscreant to justice, so ready shall I
      be to reward those who are instrumental in his capture."  
  "You may rely upon us, young gentleman," said Zingary. "We will not shield a man who belongs
      to the miscreant gang of   Burkers  . To-morrow morning I will issue fresh instructions
      to the various district chiefs, but especially to our friends in London."  
  "And is it possible that, with no compulsory means to enforce obedience, you can dispose of
      thousands individuals at will?" exclaimed Markham.  
  "Listen, young man," said the King, stroking his beard. "When the great Ottoman monarch, the
      Sultan Selim, invaded Egypt at the beginning of the sixteenth century, and put to death the
      Mameluke sovereign Toumanbai,—when the chivalry of Egypt was subdued by the overwhelming
      multitudes of warriors who fought beneath the banner of Selim and his great Vizier
      Sinan-Pacha,—then did a certain Egyptian chief place himself at the head of a chosen body of
      Mamelukes, and proclaim death and destruction to the Ottomans. This chief was Zingarai. For
      some time he successfully resisted the troops of Selim; but at length he was compelled to
      yield to numbers; and Selim put him to death. His followers were proscribed; and those who did
      not fall into the hands of the Turkish conquerors escaped into Europe. They settled first in
      Bohemia, where their wandering mode of life, their simple manners, their happy and contented
      dispositions, and their handsome persons soon attracted notice. Then was it that the Bohemian
      maidens were proud to bestow their hands upon the fugitive followers of Zingarai; and many
      Bohemian men sought admittance into the fraternity. Hence the mixed Egyptian and Bohemian
      origin of the gipsy race. In a short time various members of this truly patriarchal society
      migrated to other climes; and in 1534 our ancestors first settled in England. Now the gipsy
      race may be met with all over the globe: in every part of Asia, in the interior of Africa, and
      in both the Americas, you may encounter our brethren, as in Europe. The Asiatics call us
         Egyptians  , the Germans   Ziguener  , the Italians   Cingani  , the
      Spaniards   Gitanos  , the French   Bohemians  , the Russians   Saracens  , the
      Swedes and Danes   Tartars  , and the English   Gipsies  . We most usually
      denominate ourselves   the united races of Zingarees  . And Time, young gentleman, has
      left us comparatively unchanged; we preserve the primitive simplicity of our manners; our
      countenances denote our origin; and, though deeply calumniated—vilely maligned, we endeavour
      to live in peace and tranquillity to the utmost of our power. We have resisted persecution—we
      have outlived oppression. All Europe has promulgated laws against us; and no sovereigns aimed
      more strenuously to extirpate our race in their dominions than Henry the Eighth and Elizabeth
      of England. But as the world grows more enlightened, the prejudice against us loses its
      virulence; and we now enjoy our liberties and privileges without molestation, in all civilised
      states."  
  "I thank you for this most interesting account of your origin," said Richard.  
  our race," proceeded Zingary. "From the two or three hundred souls who fled from
      Egypt and took refuge in Bohemia, as I have ere now explained to you, has sprung a large
      family, which has increased with each generation; and at the present moment we estimate our
      total number, scattered over all parts of the earth, at one million and a half."  
  "I was not aware that you were so numerous," said Richard, much interested by these details.
      "Permit me to ask whether the members in every country have one sovereign or chief, as those
      in England?"  
  "There is a King of the Zingarees in Spain; another in France; a third in Italy; and a
      fourth in Bohemia. In the northern provinces of European Turkey, in Hungary, and in
      Transylvania, there is a prince with the title of a Waiewode: the Zingarees of Northern Europe
      are governed by a Grand, or Great Lord."  
  Richard now rose to take leave of the hospitable and entertaining family in whose society he
      had thus passed an hour; and, as it was growing dark, Morcar himself offered to conduct our
      hero as far as Hounslow.  
  This proposal was gladly accepted; and Markham, having taken leave of the King, Aischa, and
      Eva, set out with Morcar.  
  In the course of three-quarters of an hour they reached the precincts of the town.  
  Richard forced a handsome remuneration upon the gipsy, and reminded him of the promise made
      by his father concerning the Resurrection Man.  
  "You may rely upon us," said Morcar: "it cannot be very long before you will hear from us,
      for there are many on the alert to discover the haunt of the villain."  
  The gipsy then turned to retrace his steps towards the encampment; and Richard proceeded to
      the inn, where he obtained a conveyance for London.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXIV.   THE EXECUTIONER'S HISTORY.  
  On the following evening Smithers presented himself, according to appointment, at Markham
      Place.  
  Richard received him in the library, and treated him altogether with a condescension and a
      degree of kindness which made a deep impression on the mind of the executioner.  
  Our hero then proceeded to acquaint him with the good fortune of Katharine, and the
      arrangement which had been made to supply him with the means to establish him in business.  
  "But do not imagine that this is all which you are to expect at Katherine's hands," said
      Richard. "As time progresses, and I find that you are determined not only to persevere in a
      respectable course of life, but also to make amends, by your altered manner, for the harshness
      which you have exhibited towards your son on so many occasions,—it will be my pleasing duty to
      recommend Katherine's trustee, who is disposed to place implicit confidence in me, to grant
      you such occasional pecuniary succour as may enable you to extend the business, whatever it
      may be, in which you intend to embark."  
  "I cannot find words to express my gratitude to you, sir," said Smithers; "and I hope that
      when you see Kate again, you will ask her forgiveness in my name for all the unkindness I have
      shown her at different times."  
  "You shall see her yourself—she wishes you and your son to call upon her," answered Richard;
      "and Mr. Bennet, to whom I communicated every thing, has sent you both an invitation to pass
      an entire day at his farm so soon as you can find leisure to avail yourself of the offer."  
  "Then that shall be to-morrow, sir," exclaimed Smithers; "for now that Katherine has such
      good prospects, I may as well communicate something to her which she probably will not regret
      to hear."  
  And for a few moments Smithers appeared to be absorbed in deep thought.  
  "And I don't know why I should keep any secret away from you, sir," he continued, suddenly
      breaking silence; "you have done so much for Kate, and you have produced so great a change in
      my mind, that I ought to conceal nothing from you. In one word, then, sir—Katherine Wilmot is
      no more my niece than she is yours."  
  "Not your niece!" ejaculated Richard.  
  "No relation whatever in the world to me," replied Smithers. "I never had either brother or
      sister; neither had my wife: and thus you see, sir, Kate cannot be my niece."  
  "But she believes herself to be so related to you," said Markham, who was not altogether
      displeased to learn that the young female for whom he experienced a fraternal interest, was
      not even a connexion of the Public Executioner.  
  "The story is somewhat a long one—and to me a melancholy subject," continued Smithers; "but
      if you will have patience to listen to it, I shall have nerve to relate it."  
  "Proceed," said Markham. "I feel deeply interested in the topic which now occupies us."  
  "You will then excuse me, sir, if I begin by telling you something about myself," resumed
      Smithers; "because it is more or less connected with Kate's early history."  
  Smithers settled himself in a comfortable position in his chair, and then related the
      following history:—  
  when an event occurred which quite changed the prospect of affairs. The local bank
      failed, and old Wilmot was ruined."  
  Smithers paused for a moment, heaved a deep sigh, and then continued thus:—  
  "Wilmot immediately came to my father and addressed him in these words: '  The failure of
       the bank will throw me into the Gazette, if I cannot raise twelve or fifteen hundred pounds
       within a week to sustain my credit. That difficulty being overcome, I have no doubt of
       retrieving myself altogether.  ' My father expressed his great delight at hearing this
      latter announcement, but instinctively buttoned up his breeches-pockets. Wilmot proceeded to
      state that he could raise the sum he required if my father would guarantee its repayment. My
      father was a money-making, close man; and this proposal astounded him. He refused it point
      blank: Wilmot begged and implored him to save him from ruin;—but all in vain. In the course of
      ten days the name of Joseph Wilmot, corn-dealer, figured in the list of Bankrupts."  
  Again Smithers paused for a few moments.  
  "I must tell you, sir," he continued, "that I did all I could to persuade my father to help
      Wilmot in this business; but my prayers and entreaties had been poured forth entirely without
      effect. I, however, took an opportunity of seeing Harriet, and assuring her that my affection
      was based upon no selfish motive, but that her father's misfortunes endeared   her   more
      than ever to me. My father viewed matters in quite a different light, and spoke to me openly
      of the impossibility of my marrying a girl without a penny. I remonstrated with him on the
      cruelty, injustice, and dishonour of such conduct; but he cut me very short by observing that
       '  his money was his own—he had made it by his industry—he could leave it to whom he
       chose—and that if I insisted upon marrying Harriet Wilmot I need not darken his threshold
       afterwards  .' I replied that I was resolved to consult my own inclinations, and also to
      do honour to my vows and promises towards Harriet."  
  "You acted in a generous manner," observed Markham; "although you opposed the wishes of your
      own father."  
  "I had no secrets from Harriet," said Smithers; "and I assured her that if she would espouse
      a man who had nothing but his honest name and exertions to depend upon, I was ready to make
      her mine. She answered me, with tears in her eyes, that she could never consent to be the
      cause of marring all my prospects in life, and that, much as she loved me, she would release
      me from my vows. I wept in concert with her;—for I was not   then   hard-hearted,
      sir,—nor had my countenance become impressed with that brutal severity which I know—I feel, it
      has long, long worn."  
  "As the countenance is more or less the index of the soul," said Markham, "so will yours
      resume all its former serenity of expression."  
  "Well—well, sir: let me hope so! I do not wish to die with the word '  Executioner  '
      traced upon my features. But I will continue my story. Harriet seemed firm in her generous
      purpose not to be the cause of my ruin: I however implored her to reflect upon the misery into
      which her decision would plunge me. I then left her. The next morning I heard that Wilmot and
      his daughter had departed from their house, and had gone—no one knew whither. Malignant people
      said that the old man was afraid to face his creditors in the local Bankruptcy-court: I
      thought otherwise. I felt persuaded that Harriet had prevailed upon her father, by some means
      or another, to leave;—and I now considered her lost to me for ever. My sorrow was great; but I
      redoubled my attention to business in order to distract my mind from contemplating the
      misfortune that had befallen me. Weeks and months passed away; and the wound in my heart was
      closed, but it was still painful. One day, during a temporary indisposition which confined my
      father to his room, I was turning over some papers in his desk, seeking for an invoice which I
      required, when I perceived a letter addressed to my father and signed   Joseph Wilmot  .
      The date especially attracted my attention, because I remembered that this letter must have
      been written on the very day that I had the last interview with Harriet. I hesitated not a
      moment to read it; and its contents revealed to me the cause of that precipitate departure
      which has so distressed me. Indeed, the letter was in answer to one which Wilmot acknowledged
      to have just before received from my father. It appears that my father had written to offer
      old Wilmot two hundred pounds if he would quit the town, with his daughters, and that Wilmot
      should give a note of hand for this amount, which security my father engaged himself not to
      enforce so long as Wilmot remained away and left me in ignorance of his future place of
      residence. Wilmot consented to this arrangement: he was a ruined man without a shilling; and
      he gladly availed himself of the means of embarking in business elsewhere. This stratagem on
      the part of my father I discovered through Wilmot's letter. I said nothing about the letter to
      my father: I concluded that he had merely acted under the impression that he was consulting my
      welfare; and moreover the injury appeared to be irrevocable. Well, sir—six months passed away
      after the departure of Wilmot and his daughter, and my father, who was usually so cautious and
      prudent, was induced to embark some money in the purchase of smuggled goods. The excise
      officers discovered the transaction; and a fine was imposed which swept away every farthing of
      the sum which my father had been accumulating by the industry and toil of years. It broke his
      heart: he died, and left me a ruined business, instead of a decent competence. I struggled on
      for a year, just keeping my head above water, but dreadfully crippled for want of capital. At
      length I learnt, from a friend, that I had found favour in the sight of a wealthy neighbour's
      daughter, who was some six or seven years older than myself. I made the best of this
      circumstance; and, to save myself from total ruin, in a short time married the female alluded
      to. The fruit of this union was a son—the poor deformed creature whom you have seen. He was
      not, however, so afflicted at his birth: how he come to be so, I will presently tell you."  
  Smithers uttered these words in a tone of deep feeling.  
  so sorely tried that it gave way under the accumulated weight of domestic
      wretchedness. I grew harsh and uncourteous to my customers; I retaliated against my wife in
      her own fashion of ill-treatment—by means of stormy words and heavy blows; and, when I was
      weary of all that, I rushed to the public-house, where I endeavoured to drown my cares in
      strong drink. In a word, three years after my marriage, I was compelled to abandon my business
      in Southampton; and, with about a hundred pounds in my pocket—the wrecks of all that my wife
      had brought me—I removed, with her and the child, to London. On our arrival, I took a small
      tobacconist's shop in High Street, St. Giles's, and exerted myself to the utmost to obtain an
      honest livelihood; and for some time my wife seemed inclined to second me. The ruin which our
      disputes and evil courses had entailed upon us appeared to have made a deep impression upon
      her mind. She carefully avoided strong drink, and declared her resolution never to take any
      thing stronger than beer. But one day she was prevailed upon by a female friend to accept a
      little spirits; and a relapse immediately followed. She came home intoxicated; we had fresh
      quarrels—renewed disputes; and I myself went in an evil hour to the nearest public-house. From
      that moment we pursued pretty well the same courses that had ruined us in Southampton; and
      this conduct led to similar results. I was forced to give up the snuff and cigar shop; and we
      moved into that identical house in St. Giles's which I now inhabit, and where you first saw
      me."  
  Smithers passed his hand over his forehead, as if to alleviate the acuteness of painful
      recollections.  
  He then pursued his narrative in the following manner:—  
  "Our sole hope and only resource now consisted in being able to let the greater portion of
      the house; and as we had managed to save our little furniture from the wreck of the business
      in High Street, we had still a decent prospect before us. My wife again promised reformation;
      and, as I never took to drink except when driven to it by her conduct, I was by no means
      unwilling to second her in her resolutions of economy. We soon let our lodgings, and I did a
      little business by selling groceries on commission for a wholesale house to which I managed to
      obtain an introduction. In this way we got on pretty well for a time; and now I come to the
      most important part of my story."  
  Richard drew his chair, by a mechanical movement as it were, closer to that of the
      executioner, and prepared to listen with redoubled attention, if possible.  
  "It was twelve years ago last January," continued Smithers, "that I returned home one
      evening, after a hard day's application to business, when the first thing my wife told me was
      that our back room on the second floor, which had long been to let, was at length taken. She
      added that our new lodger was a female of about eight-and-twenty or thirty, and had a little
      girl of four years old. My wife also stated that she was afraid the poor creature was in a
      dreadful state of health, and was not very comfortably off, as all her own and her child's
      things were contained in a small bundle which she brought with her. When my wife asked for a
      reference she evaded the inquiry by paying a week's rent in advance; and this pittance was
      taken from a purse containing a very slender stock of money. I inquired if the new lodger had
      given any name; but my wife replied that she had not asked her for it. The next day I was
      taken unwell, and was compelled to stay at home; but my wife went out with our boy, who was
      then six years old, to pass a few hours with a friend. I was sitting in the little parlour all
      alone, and thinking of the past, when I heard a gentle knock at the door. I opened it, and saw
      a nice little girl, about four years old, standing in the passage. She asked me to let my wife
      step up to her mother, who was very ill. I took the child in my arms, and went up to my new
      lodger's room, to say that my wife was out, but that if I could render any assistance I should
      be most happy to do so. I knocked at the door; it opened—but the female who appeared uttered a
      piercing scream, and fell back senseless on the floor. She had recognised me; and I, too, had
      recognised her,—recognised her in spite of her altered appearance and her faded beauty. It was
      Harriet Wilmot!"  
  The executioner paused, averted his head for a moment, and wiped away a tear.  
  He then continued his narrative.  
  "I instantly did my best to recover her. I fetched vinegar, and bathed her forehead; and in
      a few minutes she opened her eyes. I laid her upon the bed; and she motioned me to give her
      the child. This I did; and she pressed it rapturously to her bosom. I stood gazing upon the
      affecting scene, with tears in my eyes; but I said nothing. She extended her hand towards me,
      and murmured in a faint tone, '  Is it then in your home that I am come to breathe my
       last?  my face with her nails, and dragged out my hair by handfuls. I implored her to
      hear me; she raved—she stormed—she declared she would have the life of the woman in whose
      chamber I had been. Then my own anger was fearfully roused: I caught her by the throat, and I
      do believe that I should have strangled her, had not John—our boy—at that instant caught hold
      of my legs and begun to kick and pinch me with all his might—for he always took his mother's
      part. I was now rendered as infuriate as a goaded bull: I hurled my wife away from me, and
      with one savage blow—may God forgive me!—I knocked the child backwards down the stairs."  
  Here Smithers covered his face with his hands, and the tears trickled through his
      fingers.  
  "The lodgers rushed up to the floor where this horrible scene took place," he continued,
      after a long pause; "and I, in that moment of my excited and bewildered senses, justified my
      conduct by declaring that the woman who lay dying in the next room was my own sister. My wife
      was insensible, and could not contradict me; and thus the tale was believed. The lodgers
      removed my wife and my child to their bed-room; and the same surgeon who had attended upon
      Harriet was instantly sent for. Alas! his skill was all in vain. My wife never rallied again,
      save to give way to dreadful hysterical fits: in a few weeks, during which she lingered in
      that manner, she breathed her last;—and my son became deformed, as you have seen him!"  
  Again the miserable man paused, and gave way to his emotions.  
  Several minutes elapsed ere he continued his narrative; and Markham also remained wrapped in
      a profound silence.  
  At length the executioner proceeded thus:—  
  "The condition into which my rage had thrown my wife and child on that memorable day, did
      not prevent me from watching by the death-bed of Harriet Wilmot. I even attended to her little
      girl as if she had been my own. I felt my heart yearn towards that poor woman whom I had once
      known so beautiful and had loved so tenderly. She slept on,—slept throughout that long and
      weary night; and there I remained, watching by her bed-side. In the morning the doctor came:
      Harriet awoke, and smiled when she saw me. Then she made signs that she wished to write. Her
      powers of speech had deserted her. The medical man addressed her in a kind tone, and said that
      if she had any thing to communicate she had better do so, as she was very, very ill. She
      thanked him with a glance for his candour, and for the delicate manner in which he bade her
      prepare for death. I placed writing materials before her; and she wrote a few lines, which
      were, however, so blotted by tears——"  
  "I have already been made acquainted with the contents of the only legible portion which
      still remains of that letter," interrupted our hero.  
  "And you are, then, aware, sir, that allusion is made to a certain Mr. Markham?" said
      Smithers.  
  "Perfectly," replied Richard. "The late Mr. Reginald Tracy communicated that fact to
      me."  
  "The poor creature breathed her last ere she could terminate that letter," continued the
      executioner. "She suddenly dropped her pen, turned one agonising glance upon her child, fell
      back, and expired. I buried her as decently as my means would permit; and I determined to take
      care of Katherine. I repeated my original statement that the little girl was my niece; and, in
      order not to throw shame upon the memory of her mother, I represented her as having been a
      widow when she came to my house. I have before said that my wife never sufficiently recovered
      her senses to contradict this story; and my son John was too young at the time to be aware
      that it was a fiction."  
  "And did you never institute any inquiries into the meaning of that allusion to Mr. Markham
      in the letter?" inquired Richard.  
  "I obtained various   Directories   and   Guides  , and found that there were
      thirty or forty persons of that name residing in London, and whose addresses were given in
      those books. I called upon several; but none knew any thing of the business which took me to
      them. Then I abandoned the task as hopeless: for I reflected that there might be others of the
      same name who were   not   to be found in the   Directories  ; and I was not even
      assured that the Mr. Markham alluded to dwelt in London."  
  "Thus you never obtained any farther clue to Katharine's parentage?"  
  "Never," answered Smithers. "The little child herself, when questioned by me soon after her
      mother's death, did not recollect having ever seen any one whom she called   Papa  ; and
      from all I could learn from the orphan girl, her mother must have been living for some time in
      London before she came to my house. But where this residence was, I could not ascertain. One
      thing, however, I discovered, which seemed to proclaim the illegitimacy of Katherine's birth:
      she said that her mamma's name was Wilmot. That was her maiden name!"  
  "Poor Katherine!" said Richard.  
  "And now I have told you all, sir, that concerns her early history—at least all that I know.
      Some time after my wife's death, evil reports got abroad concerning me. It was said that my
      brutality had produced her death; and my son was a living reproach against me. No one would
      employ me—no one would lodge in my house. It was then that I accepted the office of Public
      Executioner,—to save myself from starving, and to give bread to my own son and the little
      orphan girl. By degrees my temper, already ruined by the conduct of my wife, became confirmed
      in its ferocity and cruel callousness. I grew brutal—savage—inhuman. I felt the degradation of
      my calling—I saw that I was shunned by all the world. I was looked upon as a monster who had
      murdered his wife and made his son deformed;—but the provocation and the circumstances were
      never mentioned to palliate the enormity of that double crime. At length I heard all the
      reproaches, and did not take the trouble to state facts in order to justify myself. But all
      this was enough to brutalize me,—especially when added to the duties of my new calling. In
      time I even began to ill-treat that poor orphan girl whom I had at first looked upon as my own
      child. But, bad as I have been towards her when I thought that she encouraged my son to thwart
      my will,—shamefully as I used her at times, I never would have abandoned her;—for when she
      thought that I turned her out of my house the day she went to Mr. Tracy's, it was only my
      brutal way of letting her go to a place which I knew would be creditable to her, and which, by
      what she told me, I saw she wished to take. Then I thought within myself, '  Yes, even she
       will now gladly leave me  ;'—and, in order to conceal what I felt at that idea—and I
         did  in my own brutalized temper. But I sent her round all her things in the
      evening—not forgetting her work-box, which I knew contained the fragment that her poor mother
      wrote upon her death-bed. Moreover, when she came to see me, I received her with no
      constrained kindness; for I always liked her—even when I ill-used her;—and I was sorry to have
      parted with her."  
  "The world, my good friend, has not altogether read your heart correctly," said Richard.  
  "Thank you, sir,—thank you for that assurance," exclaimed Smithers; "and when you   good
       friend   me, sir—you, who are so noble-hearted, so generous, so truly grand in your
      humanity—I could burst into tears."  
  "If my example please you," said Markham, kindly, "you will make me happy by profiting by
      it. Oh! you shall yet live long to convince the world that the human heart never can be so
      deadened to all good feelings as to be beyond redemption!"  
  "I do not think I shall live to an old age, sir," observed Smithers, sinking his voice to a
      mysterious whisper: "I have already had one warning!"  
  "One warning!" repeated Richard, surprised at this strange announcement.  
  "Yes, Mr. Markham. One night I was lying in bed;—the candle was flickering in the
      fire-place;—I happened to turn my eyes towards that puppet which hangs in the loft where I
      used to sleep until within the last few days,—and I saw   another face   looking over its
      shoulder at me."  
  "Another face!" ejaculated Markham: "what do you mean?"  
  "I mean, sir,   that Harriet Wilmot's countenance appeared above the shoulder of the
       figure  !" answered Smithers, with a shudder.  
  "My good friend," said Markham, "your imagination was disordered at the moment. The days of
      spectres and apparitions are gone by. The Almighty does not address himself to man by means of
      terrors which nurses use to frighten children. I will show you, by a simple process of
      reasoning, that it is   impossible   to   see   a ghost—even if such a thing should
      exist. You do not see with the eye precisely in the way in which you may imagine. Strictly
      speaking, the eye does not see at all. The effect is this: substantial objects are reflected
      in the retina of the eye as in a mirror; and the impression is conveyed from the retina into
      the brain, where it assumes a proper and suitable shape in the imagination or conception. But
      in order that objects should so strike the retina of the eye, they   must   be
         substantial  : they must have length, breadth, and thickness;—they must displace so
      much air as to leave the void filled up by their own forms. Now, even if the spirits of the
      departed be allowed to revisit this earth,   no mortal eye can see them  , because they
      are   unsubstantial  , and they cannot be reflected in the retina of the eye. I have only
      entered into this explanation to convince you that an unsettled mind or a disordered
      imagination—arising from either moral or physical causes—can   alone   conjure up
      phantoms."  
  "Well, sir, we will not talk any more upon   this   subject, if you please," said
      Smithers. "I understand what you say; and I thank you for your goodness in explaining the
      matter to me. I now wish to ask you whether you would rather that I should communicate all I
      have told you to Katherine; or whether you will yourself?"  
  "My good friend," said Richard, "you acted so noble a part towards her mother that this duty
      will better become you. Katherine will thank you for your goodness towards her
      parent—especially as that goodness arose from no interested motives; and you will rejoice in
      the grateful outpourings of the heart of that orphan whom you reared, and to whom you gave a
      home. To-morrow you and your son can visit her: the day after to-morrow, in the evening, I
      wish both of you—yourself and your son—to call upon me."  
  Smithers promised to obey our hero's desires in all respects, and then took his
      leave,—wondering how any human being could possess such influence over the heart, to humanize
      and reclaim it, as Richard Markham.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXV.   THE TRACE.  
  In order to avoid unnecessary details we shall now concisely state that Smithers and his son
      paid the visit agreed upon to Katherine Wilmot.  
  Smithers communicated to her, when they were alone together for half an hour, so much of his
      own history as involved all the particulars with which he was acquainted concerning her
      parentage.  
  The grateful girl expressed a deeper sense of obligation than she had ever yet experienced
      towards the individual who had supported her for so many years, although she had no claims of
      relationship upon him.  
  After one of the most agreeable days which the   late   executioner and his son had
      ever passed in their lives, they took leave of Katherine and the worthy people of the farm,
      and returned to London.  
  Poor Katherine Wilmot! she had that day learnt more concerning her parentage than she had
      ever known before; but she would have been happier, perhaps, had her original impressions on
      that subject never been disturbed!  
  Still Markham had conceived it to be a duty which was owing to the young maiden, to permit
      Smithers thus to reveal to her those circumstances which seemed to fix her with the stigma of
      illegitimacy.  
  That night her pillow was moistened with abundant tears, as she lay and reflected upon her
      lamented mother!  
  On the appointed evening Smithers and his son called at Markham Place.  
  They were conducted by Whittingham to a parlour, where the table was spread with a handsome
      collation, places being arranged for three persons.  
  "Sit down, my friends," said Richard Markham, who received them with a warmth far more
      encouraging than mere courtesy: "after supper we will transact the business for which I have
      requested your presence here."  
  "What, sir!" ejaculated Smithers; "can you condescend to have   me   at your
      table?"  
  "Not as you lately were," answered Richard: "I receive you as a regenerated man."  
  John Smithers (for we shall suppress his nickname of   Gibbet  , as his father had
      already done so) cast a glance of profound gratitude upon our hero, in acknowledgment of a
      behaviour that could not do otherwise than confirm his father in his anxious endeavours to
      adopt a course of mental improvement.  
  to Markham the particulars of his interview with Katharine.  
  Then was it for the first time the hump-back learnt that Katherine was not his cousin.  
  He said nothing; but, as he drank in all that fell from his father's lips, two large tears
      rolled down his cheeks.  
  When the supper was over, Richard addressed Smithers in the following manner:—  
  "The narrative which you revealed to me the day before yesterday materially alters the
      position in which Katherine stands with respect to you. When I first proposed that she should
      advance you at once a small sum, I believed her to be your near relative. But as she is in no
      way akin to you, it results that you have for years supported one who had no claim upon you.
      Accident has made her rich; and it is but fair and just that you should be adequately rewarded
      for your generosity. I have communicated with Katherine's trustee upon the subject; and we
      have agreed to furnish you with five hundred pounds at once, to enable you to embark in a
      respectable and substantial line of business. This pocket-book," proceeded Markham, "contains
      that sum. Take it, my worthy friend—it is your due; and, should you succeed in the career that
      you are now about to enter upon, you can with satisfaction trace your prosperity to the
      humanity which you showed to a friendless orphan."  
  After some hesitation, Smithers received the pocket-book. He and his son then took leave of
      Richard Markham, with the most sincerely felt expressions of gratitude, and with a promise
      from the father to write to him soon to state where and how they had settled themselves.  
  Scarcely had those two individuals, now both made happy, taken their departure, when
      Whittingham informed his master that a person with a dark complexion, and who gave the name of
      Morcar, requested to speak to him.  
  Richard ordered the gipsy to be instantly admitted to his presence.  
  Morcar was accordingly shown into the parlour.  
  The moment he found himself alone with Markham, he said in a low and somewhat solemn tone,
      "We have traced him!"  
  "I expected as much, the moment your name was announced," said Richard. "Where is he?"  
  "He has taken refuge in a barge on the river," answered Morcar. "That is all I have been
      able to learn; but I am confident he is there."  
  "And do you know where the barge is moored?" asked Richard.  
  "Close by Rotherhithe. But there are several other barges off the same wharf; and I cannot
      single out which he is in. I, however, know that he   is   concealed in one of them."  
  "It is important to discover which," said Markham. "Were we to make our appearance in that
      vicinity with a body of police, he might escape us altogether."  
  "And therefore it will be better to take him by means of stratagem," observed Morcar.  
  "What can have induced him to seek refuge there?" said Richard, in a musing tone. "Some new
      crime, perhaps?"  
  "Or else some fresh scheme of villany," returned Morcar. "But perhaps you are not aware,
      sir, that river piracy still flourishes to some extent?"  
  "I certainly imagined that with our system of Thames police, that species of depredation was
      completely ruined."  
  "No such thing, sir!" exclaimed Morcar. "The man who gave me the information about Tidkins,
      told me more than ever I knew before on that subject."  
  "You may as well acquaint me with those particulars, Morcar," said our hero. "They may
      assist me in devising some scheme to entrap the Resurrection Man, and enable justice to
      receive its due."  
  "River piracy, sir," continued Morcar, "is carried on by a set of vagabonds who for the most
      part have been sailors, or in some shape or another engaged amongst barges and lighters. They
      are all leagued with the marine-store dealers and people that keep old iron and junk shops on
      both sides of the river below London bridge. The river pirates usually possess a barge or
      lighter, which every now and then makes a trip up and down the river between Greenwich and
      Putney, but with no other freight than bales of sawdust, old rags, or even dung. This they do
      to keep up appearances and avoid suspicion. But all day long they maintain a good look out in
      the pool, and take notice of particular ships which they think can be easily robbed. For
      instance, sometimes a steamer is left with only a boy on board to take care of it; or else a
      lighter has only one man to look after it. Then these pirates go on board in the night, master
      the boy or the man, and plunder the steamer or lighter of any thing worth carrying away."  
  "I begin to understand how these villains may reap a profitable harvest in this manner,"
      observed Richard.  
  "Oh! you don't know half their pranks, yet," said Morcar. "Sometimes two or three of the
      gang will go and hire themselves as bargemen or lightermen; and then they easily arrange with
      their pals how to plunder the vessels thus entrusted to them, while the owners never suspect
      that their own men are at the bottom of the robbery. When times are bad, and these fellows are
      driven to desperation, they think nothing of cutting away great pieces of ships' cables, or
      even weighing the anchors of small craft; and with these heavy materials they will get clean
      off in their boats to their own barge; and next morning they convey them as coolly as possible
      to the marine store dealers. Sometimes they cut lighters adrift, when the tide is running out,
      and follow them in their boat; then, under pretence of helping those on board, they cut away
      bales of cotton or any other goods that are easily thrown into their boats in dark
      nights."  
  "The villain Tidkins has no doubt transferred his operations from the land to the river,"
      observed Markham; "seeing that, by means of a little address and a great deal of courage, such
      depredations can be effected."  
  "These river-pirates are of several kinds," continued Morcar. "There's the
         light-horsemen  , or men who board the unprotected vessels in the night. Then there's
      the   heavy-horsemen  , who wear an under-dress, called a   jemmy  , which is
      covered by their smocks: these fellows obtain employment as   lumpers  ,—that is, to load
      or discharge ships in the pool, during which they contrive to stow away every thing portable
      in the large pouches or pockets of their under-dress. Afterwards, the   heavy-horsemen  on the scent which ships to rob at night. Next there's the   mud-larks  , who
      get on board stranded lighters at low water, and carry off what they can when the vessels are
      unprotected, or ask some question to lull suspicion if they find any one on board. This mode
      of river-piracy is very profitable, because numbers of lighters and barges are often left for
      hours alongside the banks, without a soul on board.   Game lightermen   are those pirates
      that are in league with dishonest mates and sailors belonging to vessels that come up the
      river to discharge: and they receive at night from their pals on board, through the port-holes
      or over the quarter, any thing that's easy to move away in this manner. Last of all there's
      the   scuffle-hunters  , who put on smocks, and obtain work as porters on the wharfs
      where a ship is loading: then, if they can't contrive to steal any thing by those means, they
      can at all events carry some useful information to their pals—so that the ship is generally
      robbed in one way or another."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "With so well organised a fraternity and such means of operation," said Markham, who had
      listened with interest and astonishment to these details, "Tidkins is capable of amassing a
      fortune in a very short time. But we must stop him in his criminal career. At the same time,
      let us do nothing without mature consideration. Are you willing to assist? Your reward shall
      be liberal."  
  "The Zingaree may not of his own accord deliver up any one to justice," answered Morcar;
      "but he is allowed to serve an employer who pays him. Moreover," he added, as if ashamed of
      that sophistical compromise with the rules of his fraternity, "I shall gladly help to punish
      the miscreant who treated us with such base ingratitude."  
  "Then you consent to serve me?" said Richard.  
  "I do, sir," was the reply.  
  "To-morrow, at mid-day, I will meet you somewhere in the eastern part of London," continued
      Richard. "I have already a project in my head; but I must consider it more maturely."  
  "Where shall we meet, sir?" asked Morcar.  
  Markham reflected for a moment, and then said, "On the Tower wharf."  
  "I will be punctual, sir," answered the gipsy; and he took his departure.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXVI.   THE THAMES PIRATES.  
  Moored at a wharf at the Rotherhithe side of the river Thames, nearly opposite Execution
      Dock, were several lighters and barges, all lying together.  
  Along the upper part of the buildings belonging to the wharf were painted, in rude but
      gigantic letters, the following words:—"  Mossop's Wharf, where Goods are Received, Housed,
       or Carted.  "  
  Mr. Mossop, the sole proprietor of this wharf, was by no means particular what goods he thus
      received, whence they came when he housed them, or whither they were going when he carted
      them. He asked no questions, so long as his commission and charges were duly paid.  
  For the convenience of his numerous customers, he kept his office constantly open; and
      either himself or his son Ben Mossop was in constant attendance.  
  Indeed, Mr. Mossop did more business by night than by day. He was, however, a close man: he
      never put impertinent questions to any one who called to patronise him; and thus his way of
      doing business was vastly convenient for all those who used his wharf or his store-houses.  
  If a lighter arrived at that wharf, ostensibly with a freight of hay, but in reality with
      divers bales of cotton or other goods concealed beneath the dried grass, Mr. Mossop did not
      seem to think that there was any thing at all strange in this; and if next day he happened to
      hear that a barge at a neighbouring wharf had been robbed of divers bales of cotton during the
      night, Mr. Mossop was too much of a gentleman to question the integrity of   his  
      customers. Even if every wall in Rotherhithe, Horselydown, and Bermondsey, were covered with
      placards announcing the loss of the bales, describing them to a nicety, and offering a reward
      for their recovery, Mr. Mossop never stopped to read one of them.  
  On two or three occasions, when a police-officer called at his wharf and politely requested
      him just to honour the nearest magistrate with a visit, and enter into an explanation how
      certain goods happened to be found in his store-rooms, the said goods having been lost by
      other parties in an unpleasant manner, Mr. Mossop would put an enormous pair of spectacles
      upon his nose and a good face on the matter at the same time; and it invariably happened that
      he managed to convince the bench of   his   integrity, but without in any way
      compromising those persons who might be in custody on account of the said goods.  
  His son Ben was equally prudent and reserved; and thus father and son were mighty favourites
      with all the river pirates who patronised them.  
  Moreover, Mossop's Wharf was most conveniently situate: the front looked, of course, upon
      the river; the back opened into Rotherhithe Wall; and Mossop's carts were noted for the
      celerity with which they would convey goods away from the warehouse to the receivers in Blue
      Anchor Road or in the neighbourhood of Halfpenny Hatch.  
  The father and son were also famous for the regularity and dispatch with which they executed
      business on pressing occasions. Thus, while Mossop senior would superintend the landing of
      goods upon the wharf, Mossop junior was stationed at the back gate, where it was his pleasing
      duty to see the bales speedily carted as they were brought   through   the warehouses by
      the lumpers employed.  
  Mossop senior was also reputed to be a humane man; for if any of his best customers got into
      trouble (which was sometimes the case) and were short of funds, a five pound note in a blank
      envelop would reach them in prison to enable them to employ counsel in their defence; and this
      sum invariably appeared as "  money lent  " in Mossop's next account against them when
      they were free once more, and enabled to land another cargo at the wharf.  
  But to continue our narrative.  
  It was the evening after the one on which Morcar had called at Markham Place; consequently
      the evening of that day when the gipsy was to meet our hero on the Tower wharf.  
  Over the particulars of that meeting we, however, pass; as the plans then arranged will
      presently develop themselves.  
  It was now about nine o'clock.  
  The evening was beautiful and moonlight.  
  Myriads of stars were rocked to and fro in the cradle of the river's restless tide; and the
      profiles of the banks were marked with thousands of lights, glancing through dense forests of
      masts belonging to the shipping that were crowded along those shores.  
  At intervals those subdued murmurs which denoted that the river was as busy and active as
      the great city itself, were absorbed in the noise of some steamer ploughing its rapid way
      amidst the mazes of vessels that to the inexperienced eye appear to be inextricably entangled
      together.  
  Then would arise those shouts of warning to the smaller craft,—those rapid commands to
      regulate the movements of the engines,—and those orders to the helmsman, which, emanating from
      the lips of the captain posted on the paddle-box, proclaim the progress of the steamer winding
      its way up the pool.  
  A wondrous and deeply interesting spectacle, though only dimly seen, is that portion of the
      Thames on a moonlight night.  
  Then indeed is it that even the most callous mind is compelled to contemplate with mingled
      astonishment and awe, one of the grandest features of the sovereign city and world's emporium
      of trade.  
  The gurgling water, and the countless masts,—the vibration of mighty engines on the stream,
      and the myriads of twinkling lights along the shores,—the cheering voices of the mariners, and
      the dense volumes of smoke which moving colossal chimneys vomit forth,—the metallic grating of
      windlasses, and the glittering of the spray beneath revolving wheels,—the flapping of heavy
      canvass, and the glare from the oval windows of steamers,—the cries of the rowers in
      endangered boats, and the flood of silver lustre which the moon pours upon the river's
      bosom,—these form a wondrous complication of elements of interest for both ear and eye.  
  The barge that was farthest off from Mossop's wharf, of all the lighters moored there, and
      that could consequently get into the stream quicker than any other near it, was one to which
      we must particularly direct our readers' attention.  
  It was called the   Fairy  to be lowered at pleasure, to enable the vessel to pass under the bridges at high
      water. The rudder was of enormous size; and the tiller was as thick and long as the pole of a
      carriage.  
  The waist, or uncovered part of the lighter in the middle, was now empty; but it was very
      capacious, and adapted to contain an immense quantity of goods.  
  On the evening in question two men were sitting on the windlass, smoking their pipes, and
      pretty frequently applying themselves to a can of grog which stood upon the deck near
      them.  
  One was the Resurrection Man: the other was John Wicks, better known as the Buffer.  
  "Well, Jack," said the Resurrection Man, "this is precious slow work. For the last four days
      we've done nothing."  
  "What did I tell you, when you fust come to me and proposed to take to the river?" exclaimed
      the Buffer. "Didn't I say that one ought to be bred to the business to do much good in
      it?"  
  "Oh! that be hanged!" cried the Resurrection Man. "I can soon learn any business that's to
      make money. Besides, the land was too hot to hold me till certain little things had blown
      over. There's that fellow Markham who ran against me one night;—then there's Crankey Jem. The
      first saw that I was still hanging about London; and the other may have learnt, by some means
      or another, that I didn't die of the wound he gave me. Then again, there's those gipsies whose
      money I walked off with one fine day. All these things made the land unsafe; and so I thought
      it best to embark the gold that I took from old King Zingary, in this barge, which was to be
      had so cheap."  
  "I suppose we shall do better in time, Tony," said the Buffer, "when we get more acquainted
      with them light and heavy horsemen that we must employ, and them lumpers that gives the
      information."  
  "Of course. When you set up in a new business, you can't expect to succeed directly,"
      returned the Resurrection Man. "The regular pirates won't have confidence in us at first; and
      as yet we don't know a single captain or mate that will trust us with the job of robbing their
      ship. How do they know but what we should peach, if we got into trouble, and tell their
      employers that it was all done with their connivance? But old Mossop begins to grow more
      friendly; and that, I'm sure, is a good sign that   he   thinks that we shall
      succeed."  
  "So it is," said the Buffer. "Besides, this barge is so good a blind, that business
         must   come. What should you say to getting into the skiff presently, and taking a
      look out amongst the shipping for ourselves?"  
  "Well, I've no objection," answered Tidkins. "But we've already a connexion with several
      lumpers; and they have put us on to all that we   have   done up to the present time.
      P'rhaps we should do better to wait for the information that they can give us. They begin to
      see that we pay well; and so they'll only be too anxious to put things in our way."  
  "True enough," observed the Buffer.  
  At this period of the conversation, a woman's head appeared above the cabin hatchway.  
  "Supper's ready," she said.  
  "We're coming, Moll," returned the Buffer.  
  The two villains then descended into the cabin, where a well-spread table awaited them.  
  Scarcely had the trio concluded their repast, when a man, who had come from the wharf and
      had walked across the barges until he reached the   Fairy  , called to Tidkins, by the
      appellation of "Captain," from the hatchway.  
  "Come below," answered the Resurrection Man.  
  The person thus invited was the foreman in Mr. Mossop's employment. He was short, stout, and
      strongly built, with a tremendous rubicundity of visage, small piercing grey eyes, no
      whiskers, and a very apoplectic neck. His age might be about fifty; and he was dressed in a
      light garb befitting the nature of his calling.  
  "Well, Mr. Swot," said the Resurrection Man, as the little fat foreman descended the ladder;
      "this is really an unusual thing to have the honour of your company. Sit down; and you, Moll,
      put the lush and the pipes upon the table."  
  "That's right, Captain," returned Mr. Swot, as he seated himself. "I came on purpose to
      drink a social glass and have a chat with you. In fact, my present visit is not altogether
      without an object."  
  "I'm glad of that," said the Resurrection Man. "We want something to do. It was only just
      now that I and my mate were complaining how slack business was."  
  "You know that Mossop never has any thing to do with any schemes in which chaps of your
      business choose to embark," continued Mr. Swot: "he receives your goods, and either keeps them
      in warehouse or carts them for you as you like; but he never knows where they come from."  
  "Perfectly true," observed the Resurrection Man.  
  "But all that's no reason why I should be equally partickler," proceeded Swot.  
  "Of course not," said the Resurrection Man.  
  "Well, then—we are all friends here?" asked Swot, glancing around him.  
  "All," replied Tidkins. "This is my mate's wife; she answers to the name of Moll, and is
      stanch to the back-bone."  
  "Well and good," said Swot. "Now I've as pretty a little idea in my head as ever was born
      there; but it requires two or three daring—I may say   desperate   fellers to carry it
      out."  
  "You couldn't come to a better shop for them kind of chaps," remarked the Buffer.  
  "And if it's necessary, I'll deuced soon dress myself up like a lighterman and help you,"
      added Moll.  
  "I am very much pleased with your pluck, ma'am," said Mr. Swot; "and I drink to your
      excellent health—and our better acquaintance."  
  Mr. Swot emptied his mug at a draught, lighted a pipe, and then continued thus:—  
  "But now, my fine fellers, s'pose I was to start some scheme which is about as dangerous as
      walking slap into a house on fire to get the iron safe that's full of gold and silver?"  
  "Well—we're the men to do it," said Tidkins.  
  "That is," observed the Buffer, "if so be the inducement is equal to the risk."  
  "Of course," returned Mr. Swot. "Now one more question:—would you sleep in the same room
      with a man who had the cholera or the small-pox, for instance—supposing you got a thousand
      pounds each to do it?"  
  "I would in a minute," answered the Resurrection Man. "Nothing dare, nothing have."  
  "So I say," added the Buffer.  
  "And you wouldn't find me flinch!" cried Moll.  
  "Now, then, we shall soon understand each other," resumed Swot, helping himself to
      another supply of grog. "Please to listen to me for a few minutes. A very fine schooner, the
         Lady Anne   of London, trades to the Gold and Slave Coasts of Guinea. She takes out
      woollens, cottons, linen, arms, and gunpowder, which she exchanges for gold dust, ivory, gums,
      and hides. A few days since, as she was beating up the Channel, homeward bound with a fine
      cargo, something occurs that makes it necessary for her to run for the Medway, instead of
      coming direct up to London. But the night before last it blew great guns, as you may
      recollect; and as she was but indifferently manned, she got out in her reckoning—for it was as
      dark as pitch—and ran ashore between the mouth of the Medway and Gravesend. Now, there she
      lies—and there she's likely to lie. She got stranded during spring-tide; and she does not
      float now even at high water. The gold dust would be very acceptable; the gums, ivory, hides,
      and such like matters, may stay where they are."  
  "Then the fact is the owners haven't yet moved out the cargo?" said the Resurrection Man,
      interrogatively.  
  "No—nor don't intend to, neither—for the present," answered Swot. "And what's more, there's
      a police-boat pulling about in that part of the river all day and all night; but I can assure
      you that it gives the schooner a precious wide berth."  
  "Well, I can't understand it yet," said the Buffer.  
  "The fact is," continued Swot, "the   Lady Anne   was on its way to Standgate Creek in
      the Medway, when it got ashore on the bank of the Thames. Do you begin to take?"  
  "Can't say I do," answered the Resurrection Man. "Is the crew on board still?"  
  "The crew consisted this morning, when I heard about it last, of three men and a boy,"
      returned Swot; "and one of them men is a surgeon. But the   Lady Anne   has got the
      yellow flag flying;—and now do you comprehend me?"  
  "The plague!" ejaculated the Resurrection Man and the Buffer in the same breath.  
  "The plague!" repeated Moll Wicks, with a shudder.  
  "Neither more or less," said Swot, coolly emptying his second mug of grog.  
  There was a dead silence for some moments.  
  It seemed as if the spirits of those who had listened with deep attention to the foreman's
      narrative, were suddenly damped by the explanation that closed it.  
  "Well—are you afraid?" asked Swot, at length breaking silence.  
  "No," returned the Resurrection Man, throwing off the depression which had fallen upon him.
      "But there is something awful in boarding a plague-ship."  
  "Are you sure the gold dust is on board?" demanded the Buffer.  
  "Certain. My information is quite correct. Besides, you may get the newspapers and read all
      about it for yourselves."  
  "The thing is tempting," said Moll.  
  "Then, by God, if a woman will dare it, we mustn't show the white feather, Jack," exclaimed
      the Resurrection Man.  
  "That's speaking to the point," observed the foreman. "You see there's a guard on land, to
      prevent any one from going near the vessel on that side; and the police-boat rows about on the
      river. The plan would be, to get down to Gravesend to-morrow, then to-morrow night, to drop
      down with the tide close under the bank, and get alongside the vessel."  
  "All that can be done easy enough," said the Resurrection Man. "But we want more hands. Of
      course you'll go with us?"  
  "Yes—I'll risk it," answered Mr. Swot. "It's too good a thing to let slip between one's
      fingers. If you'll leave it to me I'll get two or three more hands; because we must be
      prepared to master all that we may meet on the deck of the schooner, the very moment we board
      it, so as not to give 'em time even to cry out, or they'd alarm the police-boat."  
  "Well and good," said the Resurrection Man. "But you don't mean to go in the lighter?"  
  "No—no: we must have a good boat with two sculls," answered Swot. "Leave that also to me. At
      day-break every thing shall be ready for you; and I shall join you in the evening at
      Gravesend."  
  "Agreed!" cried Tidkins.  
  Mr. Swot then took his departure; and the three persons whom he left behind in the lighter,
      continued their carouse.  
  In this way the Resurrection Man, the Buffer, and Moll Wicks amused themselves until nearly
      eleven o'clock, when, just as they were thinking of retiring for the night,—Tidkins to his bed
      in the after cabin where they were then seated, and the other two to their berth in the cuddy
      forward,—the lighter was suddenly shaken from one end to the other by some heavy object which
      bumped violently against it.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXVII.   AN ARRIVAL AT THE WHARF.  
  The collision was so powerful that the Buffer's wife was thrown from her seat; and every
      plank in the   Fairy   oscillated with a crashing sound.  
  The Buffer and the Resurrection Man rushed upon the deck.  
  A single glance enabled them to ascertain the cause of the sudden alarm.  
  A lighter, nearly as large as the   Fairy  , and heavily laden, had been so clumsily
      brought in against the barges moored off the wharf, that it came with the whole weight of its
      broad-side upon the   Fairy  .  
  "Now then, stupids!" ejaculated the Buffer, applying this complimentary epithet to the two
      men who were on the deck of the lighter which was putting in.  
  "Hope we haven't hurt you, friends," exclaimed one of the individuals thus addressed.  
  "More harm might have been done," answered the Buffer. "Who are you?"  
  "The   Blossom  ," was the reply.  
  "Where d'ye come from?" demanded Wicks.  
  "Oh! up above bridge," cried the man, speaking in a surly and evasive manner. "Here—just
      catch hold of this rope, will you—and let us lay alongside of you."  
  "No—no," shouted the Buffer. "You'd better drop astern of us, and moor alongside that chalk
      barge."  
  "Well, so we will," said the man.  
  While the   Blossom  men that worked her had never been entrusted with the care of a lighter before,
      the Buffer turned towards the Resurrection Man, and said in a whisper, "We must remain outside
      all the barges, 'cause of having room to run our boat alongside the   Fairy   and get the
      things on board easy, when we come back from the expedition down to the   Lady
      Anne  ."  
  "To be sure," answered the Resurrection Man. "You did quite right to make those lubbers get
      lower down. I'm pleased with you, Jack; and now I see that I can let you be spokesman on all
      such occasions without any fear that you'll commit yourself."  
  "Why, if you want to keep in the back-ground as much as possible, Tony," replied the Buffer,
      "it's much better to trust these little things to me. But, I say—I think there's something
      queer about them chaps that have just put in here."  
  "So do I, Jack," said Tidkins. "They certainly know no more about managing a lighter than
      you and I did when we first took to it."  
  "Yes—but we had a regular man to help us at the beginning," observed the Buffer.  
  "So we had. And I precious soon sent him about his business when he had taught us our
      own."  
  "Well—p'rhaps them fellows have got a reg'lar man too," said Wicks. "But let 'em be what and
      who they will, my idea is, that they've taken to the same line as ourselves."  
  "We must find that out, Jack," observed the Resurrection Man. "If they're what you think,
      they will of course be respected: if they don't belong to the same class, we must ascertain
      what they've got on board, and then make up our minds whether any of their cargo will suit
      us."  
  "Well said," returned the Buffer.  
  "But in any case you must be the person to learn all this," continued the Resurrection Man.
      "You see, I'm so well known to a lot of different people that would show me no mercy if they
      got hold of me, that I'm compelled to keep myself as quiet as possible. There's
      Markham—there's Crankey Jem—there's the gipsies—and there's the Rattlesnake: why—if I was only
      to be twigged by one of them I should have to make myself scarce in a minute."  
  "I know all this, Tony," cried the Buffer, impatiently; "and therefore the less you're seen
      about, the better. In the day time always keep below, as you have been doing; but at night,
      when one can't distinguish particular faces, you can take the air;—or on such occasions as
      to-morrow will be, for instance,—when we run down the river, and get away from London——"  
  "Yes, yes," interrupted Tidkins: "don't think that I shall throw away a chance. Those
      lubbers have managed to make their lighter fast to the chalk barge now: just step across and
      try and find out what you can about them."  
  The Buffer immediately proceeded to obey this order. He walked across the barges, which, as
      we before stated, were so closely moored together that they formed one vast floating pier; and
      approaching as close as possible to the   Blossom  , without setting foot upon it, he
      said, "Holloa, friend, there! You mustn't think that we meant any thing by telling you not to
      lay alongside of us: 'twas only 'cause we expect to be off to-morrow or next day."  
  "No offence is taken where none's intended," answered the man who had before spoken.  
  The Buffer now perceived that the other individual on board the   Blossom  , and who
      had charge of the helm, was a Black, of tall form, and dressed in the rough garb of a
      sailor.  
  "You seem well laden," said the Buffer, after a pause.  
  "Yes—pretty deep," answered the first speaker.  
  "Do you discharge here, at Mossop's?"  
  "Don't know yet," was the laconic reply.  
  "And what may be your freight?"  
  "Bales of cotton," returned the man.  
  "Then I suppose you're the master of that lighter?" continued the Buffer.  
  "Yes," was the brief answer.  
  "Well, it's a pleasant life," observed Wicks. "Have you been at it long?"  
  "I've only just begun it," replied the master.  
  "And that sable gentleman there," said the Buffer, with a laugh,—"I should think he's not a
      Johnny Raw on the water?"  
  "Not quite," returned the master. "Poor fellow! he's deaf and dumb!"  
  "Deaf and dumb, eh?" repeated the Buffer. "Well,—p'rhaps that's convenient in more ways than
      one."  
  "I believe you," said the master, significantly.  
  "Ah! I thought so," cried Wicks, who now felt convinced that the   Blossom   was not a
      whit better than the   Fairy  . "Ain't there no one on board but you and Blackee?"  
  "What the devil should we want any more hands for?" said the master, gruffly.  
  "Oh! I understand," observed the Buffer. "Capital! you're the master—to do as you like;
      Blackee's deaf and dumb, and can't blab; and you and him are alone on board. I've hit it, you
      see."  
  "You're uncommon sharp, my fine feller," said the master. "Step on board and wash your mouth
      out."  
  The Buffer did not hesitate to accept this invitation. The Black had lighted his pipe, and
      was lounging on the deck over the after cabin. The master disappeared down the hatchway of the
      small cabin, or cuddy, forward; and in a few moments he returned with a bottle and two tin
      pannikins.  
  "What's the name of your craft?" he said, as he poured out the liquor, which exhaled the
      strong and saccharine flavour of rum.  
  "The   Fairy  ," replied the Buffer.  
  "Then here's a health to the   Fairy  ."  
  "And here's to the   Blossom  ."  
  The master and the Buffer each took draughts of the raw spirit.  
  "Now let us drink to our better acquaintance," said the master. "You seem an honest,
      open-hearted kind of a feller——"  
  "And to be trusted, too," interrupted Wicks.  
  "Well—I'm inclined to think you are," said the master, speaking deliberately, as if he were
      meditating upon some particular idea which then occupied his mind; "and it's very probable—it
         may   be, I mean—that I shall want a little of your advice; for which, remember, I
      should be happy to pay you well."  
  "You couldn't apply to a better man," returned the Buffer.  
  "And here's to you," said the master. "What sort of a fellow is Mossop, that keeps this
      wharf?"  
  "He has no eyes, no ears, and no tongue for things that don't consarn him," answered
      Wicks.  
  master. "But I shall also require two or three good fellers in a few days,—chaps
      that ain't over partickler, you understand, how they earn a ten-pound note, so long as it's
      sure."  
  "And you want two or three chaps of that kind?" asked the Buffer.  
  "Yes. I've a good thing in hand," returned the master. "But I shan't say too much now."  
  "Well, you may reckon on me at any moment—to-morrow excepted," said Wicks; "and my pal in
      the   Fairy   will also be glad to row in the same boat."  
  "What sort of a man is your pal?" demanded the master: "one of the right kind?"  
  "If he wasn't, him and I shouldn't long hold together," answered the Buffer. "But when do
      you think you'll want our services?"  
  "Very soon. You say you're both engaged for to-morrow?"  
  "Yes—both of us."  
  "The day after to-morrow, in the evening, you and your friend can come and smoke your pipes
      with me; and we'll talk the matter over," said the master.  
  "And if any thing should prevent us coming the day after to-morrow, the evening after that
      will do p'rhaps?" remarked the Buffer, interrogatively.  
  "Well—we must make that do, then," answered the master. "Good night."  
  "Good night," said Wicks; and he then returned to the   Fairy  .  
  "What can you make of them, Jack?" demanded the Resurrection Man, who was smoking his pipe
      on the after deck.  
  "They're of the right sort, Tony," was the reply. "The master seems a good kind of a feller:
      the only other man on board with him is a Black; and he's deaf and dumb. The master sounded me
      about Mossop; and that shows that he knows what's what. Besides, he hinted that he'd a good
      thing in view, but wanted more hands, and so he made an appointment for you and me to smoke a
      pipe with him in the course of two or three evenings, to talk over the matter."  
  "You didn't say much about me?" exclaimed the Resurrection Man, hastily.  
  "Not more than was proper. It's all right—I could tell   that   with half an eye."  
  "Well, business seems dropping in upon us," observed the Resurrection Man; "but we must be
      very cautious what we do. And now let's turn in, for we have to get up early, recollect."  
  
  CHAPTER CLXVIII.   THE PLAGUE SHIP.  
  It wanted half-an-hour to day-break, when the splash of oars alongside met their ears; and
      in a few moments Swot, the foreman, made his appearance.  
  "I've got all ready for you, my boys," said that individual; "a good boat, and two stout
      chaps to help."  
  "Have they got their barkers?" demanded the Resurrection Man, thereby meaning pistols.  
  "A brace each," replied the foreman. "But they must only be used in case of desperation.
      There's a false bottom to the boat; and there I've stowed away five cutlasses."  
  "All right!" cried the Buffer. "Now, Moll, you make yourself comfortable till we get back
      again."  
  "You're a fool, Jack, not to let me go along with you," observed the woman.  
  "Nonsense," answered her husband. "Some one must stay on board to take care of the
      lighter."  
  "Well, don't say that I'm a coward—that's all," exclaimed Moll.  
  "We won't accuse you of that," said the Resurrection Man. "But now let's be off. Where shall
      we meet you at Gravesend?"  
  "You know the windmill about a mile below the town," returned Swot, to whom this question
      was addressed. "Well, close by is the   Lobster Tavern  , and there's a little jetty
      where the boat can be fastened. Meet me at that tavern at ten o'clock this evening."  
  "Agreed," answered Tidkins.  
  The three men then ascended to the deck.  
  The dawn was at that moment breaking in the east; and every moment mast after mast on the
      stream, and roof after roof on the shore, appeared more palpably in the increasing light of
      the young day.  
  On board of the   Blossom  , the Black was busily employed in washing the deck, and
      seemed to take no notice of any thing that was passing elsewhere.  
  "The tide will be with us for nearly three hours," said Tidkins. "Come—we won't lose a
      moment."  
  The foreman retraced his steps across the barges to the wharf; while the Resurrection Man
      and the Buffer, each armed with a pair of pistols, leapt into the boat, that lay alongside the
      lighter.  
  Two stout fellows, dressed like watermen, and who were already seated in the boat, instantly
      plied their sculls.  
  The skiff shot rapidly away from the vicinity of the barges, and was soon running down the
      middle of the river with a strong tide.  
  The morning was beautiful and bright: a gentle breeze swept the bosom of the stream:—and
      when the sun burst forth in all its effulgent glory, a few fleecy clouds alone appeared on the
      mighty arch of blue above.  
  Here and there the mariners on board the outward-bound vessels were busy in heaving up their
      anchors—a task which they performed with the usual cheering and simultaneous cry,—or in
      loosening the canvass that immediately became swollen with the breeze.  
  At distant intervals some steamer, bound to a native or foreign port, walked, as it were,
      with gigantic strides along the water, raising with its mighty Briarean arms, a swell on
      either side, which made the smaller craft toss and pitch as if in a miniature whirlpool.  
  Alas! how many souls have found a resting-place in the depths of those waters; and the spray
      of the billow seems the tears which old Father Thames sheds as a tribute to their graves!
      Then, at dark midnight, when the wind moans over the bosom of the river, the plaintive murmurs
      sound as a lament for those that are gone!  
  Vain are thy tears, O River! But if they must be shed, let them flow for the living, whose
      crimes or whose miseries may, with Orphic spell, awaken the sympathy of even inanimate
      things.  
  The boat shot rapidly along, the sun gilding its broad pathway.  
  the progress of new vessels in the various building-yards; and in the numerous
      docks the shipwright is busy in repairing the effects of past voyages, and rendering the
      gallant barks fit to dare the perils of the ocean once more!  
  The river-pirates, whose course we are following, pursued their way: the old
         Dreadnought  , stripped of the cannon that once bristled on its lofty sides, and now
      resembling the worn-out lion that has lost its fangs, was passed;—the domes of Greenwich
      greeted the eye;—and now the boat merged upon the wide expanse which seems to terminate with
      Blackwall.  
  But, no! the stream sweeps to the right; and onward floats the skiff—skirting the Kentish
      shore.  
  At length the gloomy and sombre-looking hulks off Woolwich are reached: the boat shoots in
      between the shipping; and there the pirates landed.  
  At Woolwich they repaired to a low public-house with which they were acquainted; and, as the
      fresh air of the river had sharpened their appetites, they called into request every article
      of food which was to be found in the larder. Liquors in due proportion were ordered; the
      Resurrection Man paid the score for all; and in this manner the four pirates contrived to
      while away the time until the tide turned once more in their favour in the afternoon.  
  At three o'clock they retraced their steps to the boat; and in a few minutes were again
      gliding rapidly along on the bosom of the river.  
  "Now," said the Resurrection Man, "as we have drunk a glass and smoked a pipe together, we
      are better acquainted with each other."  
  These words were especially addressed to the two men whom the foreman at Mossop's wharf had
      provided.  
  "Of course," continued the Resurrection Man, "I needn't ask you if you know the exact nature
      of the business which we have in hand. I didn't think it prudent to talk about it when we were
      at the crib in Woolwich just now, because walls have ears; but I took it for granted, from
      certain words which you two chaps said, that it's all right."  
  "Yes, yes, master," returned one, who was called Long Bob, in consequence of his height:
      "Swot put us up to the whole thing."  
  "We know the risk, and we know what's to be got by it," added the other, who delighted in
      the name of the   Lully Prig  ,  target="#ENG18460_N101" [1]   from the
      circumstance of his having formerly exercised the calling with which, in flash language, the
      name is associated, before he became a river-pirate.  
  "Then we understand each other," said the Resurrection Man, "without any farther wagging of
      the tollibon."  target="#ENG18460_N102" [2]    
  "We cut the same lock that you do, old feller,"
      answered the Lully Prig; "and as long as we snack the bit  target="#ENG18460_N104" [4]   in a reg'lar manner, we're stanch to the back-bone."  
  "So far, so good," said the Resurrection Man. "But you're also aware that the swag must be
      taken up the river and put on board the   Fairy  , where it must stay some time till Swot
      can find a safe customer for it, because it's sure to be chanted on the leer."  target="#ENG18460_N105" [5]    
  "We're fly to all that," said Long Bob. "But Swot promised us ten neds each, if the thing succeeds to-night; so that we shan't
      object to waiting for the rest of our reg'lars till the swag is dinged."  target="#ENG18460_N107" [7]    
  "Who knows that we shan't find some gobsticks,
       clinks, or other things of the same kind?" exclaimed
      the Lully Prig; "and, if so, they can soon be walked off to the melting-pot fence, and the glanthem will be dropped  target="#ENG18460_N111" [11]   in no time."  
  "That's understood, my boys," exclaimed the Resurrection Man. "Now, give way with a will,
      and don't let's delay."  
  On went the boat with increased rapidity, the Lully Prig and Long Bob plying the oars with
      strength and skill. Then, when they were wearied, the Resurrection Man and the Buffer took
      their turns. Occasionally Tidkins handed round his flask, which he had taken good care to have
      replenished with rum at Woolwich; and at intervals the Buffer or the Lully Prig cheered their
      labours with a song.  
  In this manner Erith was reached and passed:—Greenhithe and Ingress Abbey, the front of
      which splendid mansion is built with the stones of old London Bridge, were in due course left
      behind;—and soon the antique windmill and the tall tower of Gravesend greeted the eyes of the
      river-pirates.  
  At the two piers of the town were numerous steam-packets;—there were large merchant-vessels
      riding at anchor in the middle of the river;—and, on the opposite side, Tilbury Fort commanded
      the expanse of water with its cannon.  
  "Since we're to meet Swot at the   Lobster Tavern  ," said the Resurrection Man, "we
      may as well run down to that place at once."  
  "So we will," returned the Buffer.  
  The boat continued its course; and in a short time it was made fast to the little jetty
      which affords a convenient means of landing at the point mentioned.  
  The   Lobster Tavern   is a small isolated place of entertainment, upon the bank of the
      Thames, and is chiefly frequented by those good folks who, in fine weather, indulge in a trip
      on Sundays from London to Gravesend.  
  There are sheds, with seats, built in front of the tavern; and on a calm summer's evening,
      the site and view are pleasant enough.  
  The four pirates entered the establishment, and called for refreshments.  
  They thus passed away the time until ten o'clock, when Mossop's foreman joined them.  
  In another half-hour they were all five seated in the boat; and, in the darkness of the
      night, they bent their way towards the plague-ship.  
  They kept close along the Kentish shore; and when Swot imagined that they must be within
      half-a-mile of the place where the   Lady Anne   was stranded, the oars were muffled.  
  The sky was covered with dense black clouds: no moon and not a star appeared.  
  The water seemed as dark as ink.  
  point which marked the course of the Thames; and, with the tiller in his hand, he
      navigated the boat with consummate skill.  
  Not a word was spoken; and the faint murmurs of the oars were drowned in the whistling of
      the breeze which now swept over the river.  
  At length the foreman said in a low whisper, "There is the light of the police-boat."  
  At a distance of about a quarter of a mile that light appeared, like a solitary star upon
      the waters.  
  Sometimes it moved—then stopped, as the quarantine officers rowed, or rested on their
      oars.  
  "We must now be within a few yards of the   Lady Anne  ," whispered Swot, after another
      long pause: "take to your arms."  
  The Buffer cautiously raised a plank at the bottom of the boat, and drew forth, one after
      another, five cutlasses.  
  These the pirates silently fastened to their waists.  
  The boat moved slowly along; and in another minute it was by the side of the plague
      ship.  
  The Resurrection Man stretched out his arm, and his hand swept its slimy hull.  
  There was not a soul upon the deck of the   Lady Anne  ; and, as if to serve the
      purposes of the river-pirates, the wind blew in strong gusts, and the waves splashed against
      the bank and the vessel itself, with a sound sufficient to drown the noise of their
      movements.  
  The bow of the   Lady Anne   lay high upon the bank: the stern was consequently low in
      the water.  
  As cautiously as possible the boat was made fast to a rope which hung over the schooner's
      quarter; and then the five pirates, one after the other, sprang on board.  
  "Holloa!" cried a boy, suddenly thrusting his head above the hatchway of the after
      cabin.  
  Long Bob's right hand instantly grasped the boy's collar, while his left was pressed
      forcibly upon his mouth; and in another moment the lad was dragged on the deck, where he was
      immediately gagged and bound hand and foot.  
  But this process had not been effected without some struggling on the part of the boy, and
      trampling of feet on that of the pirates.  
  Some one below was evidently alarmed, for a voice called the boy from the cabin.  
  Long Bob led the way; and the pirates rushed down into the cabin, with their drawn cutlasses
      in their hands.  
  There was a light below; and a man, pale and fearfully emaciated, started from his bed, and
      advanced to meet the intruders.  
  "Not a word—or you're a dead man," cried Long Bob, drawing forth a pistol.  
  "Rascal! what do you mean?" ejaculated the other; "I am the surgeon, and in command of this
      vessel. Who are you? what do you require? Do you know that the pestilence is here?"  
  "We know all about it, sir," answered Long Bob.  
  Then, dropping his weapons, he sprang upon the surgeon, whom he threw upon the floor, and
      whose mouth he instantly closed with his iron hand.  
  The pirates then secured the surgeon in the same way as they had the boy above.  
  "Let's go forward now," cried Swot. "So far, all's well. One of you must stay down here to
      mind this chap."  
  The Lully Prig volunteered this service; and the other pirates repaired to the cabin
      forward.  
  They well knew that the plague-stricken invalids must be   there  ; and when they
      reached the hatchway, there was a sudden hesitation—a simultaneous pause.  
  The idea of the pestilence was horrible.  
  "Well," said the foreman, "are we afraid?"  
  "No—not I, by God!" ejaculated the Resurrection Man; and he sprang down the ladder.  
  The others immediately followed him.  
  But there was no need of cutlass, pistol, or violence there. By the light of the lamp
      suspended to a beam, the pirates perceived two wretched creatures, each in his hammock,—their
      cadaverous countenances covered with large sores, their hair matted, their eyes open but
      glazed and dim, and their wasted hands lying like those of the dead outside the coverlids, as
      if all the nervous energy were defunct.  
  Still they were alive; but they were too weak and wretched to experience any emotion at the
      appearance of armed men in their cabin.  
  The atmosphere which they breathed was heated and nauseous with the pestilential vapours of
      their breath and their perspiration.  
  "These poor devils can do no harm," said the Resurrection Man, with a visible shudder.  
  The pirates were only too glad to emerge from that narrow abode of the plague; and never did
      air seem more pure than that which they breathed when they had gained the deck.  
  "Now then to work," cried Swot. "Wait till we raise this hatch," he continued, stopping at
      that which covered the compartment of the ship where the freight was stowed away; "and we'll
      light the darkey when we get down below. You see, that as they hadn't a light hung out before,
      it would be dangerous to have one above: we might alarm the police-boat or the guard
      ashore."  
  The hatch was raised without much difficulty: a rope was then made fast to a spar and
      lowered into the waist of the schooner; and Long Bob slid down.  
  In a few moments he lighted his dark lantern; and the other three descended one after the
      other, the Lully Prig, be it remembered, having remained in the after cabin.  
  And now to work they went. The goods, with which the schooner was laden, were removed,
      unpacked, and ransacked.  
  There were gums, and hides, and various other articles which the western coast of Africa
      produces; but the object of the pirates' enterprise and avarice was the gold-dust, which was
      contained in two heavy cases. These were, however, at the bottom of all the other goods; and
      nearly an hour passed before they were reached.  
  "Here is the treasure—at last!" cried Swot, when every thing was cleared away from above the
      cases of precious metal. "Come, Tony—don't waste time with the brandy flask now."  
  "I've such a precious nasty taste in my mouth," answered the Resurrection Man, as he took a
      long sup of the spirit. "I suppose it was the horrid air in the fore-cabin."  
  "Most likely," said the foreman: "come—bear a hand, and let's get these cases ready to
      raise. Then Long Bob and me will go above and reeve a rope and a pulley to haul 'em up."  
  depths of the vessel, they seemed to be four demons in the profundities of their
      own infernal abode.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Suddenly the Resurrection Man staggered, and, supporting himself against the side of the
      vessel, said in a thick tone, "My God! what a sudden headache I've got come on!"  
  "Oh! it's nothing, my dear feller," cried Swot.  
  "And now I'm all cold and shivering," said Tidkins, seating himself on a bale of goods; "and
      my legs seem as if they'd break under me."  
  The Buffer, the foreman, and Long Bob were suddenly and simultaneously inspired with the
      same idea; and they cast on their companion looks of mingled apprehension and horror.  
  "No—it can't be!" ejaculated Swot.  
  "And yet—how odd that he should turn so," said Bob, with a shudder.  
  "The plague!" returned the Buffer, in a tone of indescribable terror.  
  "You're a fool, Jack!" exclaimed the Resurrection Man, glaring wildly upon his comrades, and
      endeavouring to rise from his seat.  
  But he fell back, exhausted and powerless.  
  "Damnation!" he muttered in a low but ferocious tone; and he gnashed his teeth with
      rage.  
  "The plague!" repeated the Buffer, now unable to contain his fears.  
  Then he hastily clambered from the hold of the schooner.  
  "The coward!" cried Swot: "such a prize as this is worth any risk."  
  But as he yet spoke, Long Bob, influenced by panic fear, sprang after the Buffer, as if
      Death itself were at his heels, clad in all the horrors of the plague.  
  "My God! don't leave me here," cried the Resurrection Man, his voice losing its thickness
      and assuming the piercing tone of despair.  
  "Every man for himself, it seems," returned Swot, whom the panic had now robbed of all his
      courage; and in another moment he also had disappeared.  
  "The cowards—the villains!" said Tidkins, clenching his fists with rage.  
  Then, by an extraordinary and almost superhuman effort, he raised himself upon his legs: but
      they seemed to bend under him.  
  of goods; and, aided by the rope, lifted himself up to the hatchway. But the
      effort was too great for his failing strength: his hands could not retain a firm grasp of the
      cord; and he fell violently to the bottom of the hold, rolling over the bales of merchandize
      in his descent.  
  "It's all over!" he mattered to himself; and then he became rapidly insensible.  
  Meantime the Lully Prig, who was mounting sentry upon the surgeon in the after cabin, was
      suddenly alarmed by hearing the trampling of hasty steps over head. He rushed on deck, and
      demanded the cause of this abrupt movement.  
  "The plague!" cried the Buffer, as he leapt over the ship's quarter into the boat.  
  The Lully Prig precipitated himself after his comrade; and the other two pirates immediately
      followed.  
  "But we are only four!" said the Lully Prig, as the boat was pushed away from the
      vessel.  
  "Tidkins has got the plague," answered the Buffer, his teeth chattering with horror and
      affright.  
  Fortunately the police-boat was at a distance; and the pirates succeeded in getting safely
      away from that dangerous vicinity.  
  But the Resurrection Man remained behind in the plague-ship!  
  
  CHAPTER CLXIX.   THE PURSUIT.  
  We must now return to the   Blossom  —the lighter which had only arrived at Mossop's
      wharf the night before the incidents of the last chapter occurred.  
  When the boat which conveyed the pirates to Gravesend had pushed away from the
         Fairy   at day-break, as already described, the Black, who was cleaning the deck of
      the   Blossom  , cast from beneath his brows a rapid and scrutinising glance at the
      countenances of the four men who were seated in that skiff.  
  As soon as the boat was out of sight, the Black hastened down into the after-cabin of the
         Blossom  , where a person was lying fast asleep in bed.  
  The Black shook this person violently by the shoulder, and awoke him.  
  "I have found him, sir,—I have found him!" cried the Black.  
  "Indeed!" cried Markham, starting up, and rubbing his eyes. "Where? where?"  
  "He has just gone with three other men in a boat, down the river," answered Morcar; "and one
      of these men is him that spoke to Benstead last night."  
  "Then they both belong to the   Fairy  ?" exclaimed Richard.  
  "Both," replied Morcar; "at least they both came from it just now."  
  "Go and rouse Benstead," said Markham; "and in the meantime I will get up."  
  The gipsy, who had so well disguised himself as a man of colour, hastened to the cuddy where
      Benstead was wrapped in the arms of Morpheus.  
  The police-officer was delighted, when awakened and made acquainted with Morcar's discovery,
      to find that the Resurrection Man had been thus recognised; and he lost no time in dressing
      himself.  
  The gipsy and Benstead afterwards proceeded to Richard's cabin, where they found our hero
      just completing his hasty toilet.  
  "Thus far our aims are accomplished," said Markham, when they were all three assembled. "It
      has turned out exactly as I anticipated. Morcar, by aid of his disguised appearance, was
      enabled to keep a sharp look out on all the vessels; while the report which you circulated
      that he was deaf and dumb prevented him from being questioned. Had Tidkins himself seen Morcar
      as closely as we are to him now, he would not have known him."  
  "My suspicions, too, are fully confirmed," observed Benstead. "The moment I saw that feller
      hanging about us last night, I suspected he was up to no good. But how I managed to pump
         him  , when he doubtless thought that   I   was the soft-pated one! By my short,
      evasive, or mysterious answers, I allowed him to think that the   Blossom   was no better
      than she should be; and then I saw by his manners and language at once, that he was a pirate.
      But when I dropped a hint about wanting two or three hands for a good thing which I had in
      view, how eager the chap was to enlist himself and his pal in the business!"  
  "And to-morrow night they are coming to talk over the matter with you?" said Richard, half
      interrogatively.  
  "To-morrow night, or the night after," returned Benstead. "The pal that the man spoke of is
      sure to be Tidkins, since our friend Morcar saw the villains leave the   Fairy  
      together."  
  "But there were two other men in the boat," observed the gipsy.  
  "You say that they sculled the boat round to the   Fairy  , from some place higher up
      the river?" said Richard.  
  "Yes. But I could not see where they came from, as it was nearly dark when they got
      alongside the   Fairy  ."  
  "Well," exclaimed Benstead, "it is very clear that those two men who came in the boat, don't
      belong to the   Fairy  ; but that Tidkins and the person who spoke to me last night do. I
      should think there's no doubt about Tidkins being the pal that the man alluded to."  
  "Not the slightest," said Markham. "And yet, to make assurance doubly sure, we will not
      alter the plan which we laid down yesterday afternoon when we first came on board the lighter.
      You, Benstead, must remain spokesman—the master, in fact, of the   Blossom  ; you,
      Morcar, will continue a deaf and dumb Black," continued Richard, with a smile; "and I must
      keep close in this cabin until the moment of action arrives. If, to-morrow night or the night
      after, that man should bring Tidkins with him, our object is accomplished at once: if he bring
      a stranger, our precautions must be strictly preserved, and we must devise a means of seizing
      the miscreant on board the   Fairy   or any other lighter to which we can trace him."  
  This advice was agreed to by Benstead and Morcar; and while Richard remained below, the
      others took their turns in watching upon the deck.  
  But all that day passed; and the pirates did not come back to the   Fairy  —they being
      occupied in the manner related in the last chapter.  
  Morcar undertook to keep watch during the night; but hour after hour stole away,—another day
      dawned, and still the   Fairy   was occupied only by the woman whom the pirates had left
      behind.  
  That day also passed; and it was not until midnight that Morcar's attention was
      attracted towards the   Fairy  . Then a boat rowed alongside of the pirate-barge.  
  The night was pitch dark—so dark that Morcar could not see what was going on in the
      direction of the   Fairy  : but his ears were all attention.  
  He was enabled to discover, by means of those organs, that the boat transferred one or more
      of its living freight (but he could not tell how many) to the   Fairy  : then a brief
      conversation was carried on in low whispers, but not a distinct word of which reached the
      gipsy. At length the boat pushed off, and rowed away up the river.  
  Morcar stood upon the deck of the   Blossom   for a few minutes, attentively listening
      to catch a sound of any thing that might be passing on board the pirate lighter: but all
      continued silent in that quarter.  
  Then Morcar descended to the cabin, where Richard and the policeman were waiting.  
  To them he communicated the few particulars just narrated.  
  "It is clear that the pirates have returned from their expedition, whatever it might be,"
      said our hero; "and most probably Tidkins and his friend have just been put on board their
      lighter. We must contrive to watch their motions; and should they keep their appointment with
      you, Benstead, to-morrow night, our enterprise will speedily be brought to a conclusion."  
  "I will keep my watch now on deck till three o'clock," said the policeman; "and Morcar may
      turn in."  
  This was done; Richard also retired to rest; and the night passed away without any further
      adventure.  
  But at day-break Morcar, who had again resumed the watch, observed some activity on board
      the   Fairy  . The Buffer and his wife were in fact making evident preparations for
      departure. They raised the mast by means of the windlass; they shook out the sail; fixed the
      tiller in the rudder, and performed the various preliminaries in a most business-like
      manner.  
  Morcar speedily communicated these circumstances to Benstead and Markham; and these three
      held a rapid consultation in the after-cabin of the   Blossom  .  
  "You are certain you saw no one but that man who first spoke to Benstead, and the woman?"
      asked Markham.  
  "Not a soul," answered Morcar. "But that is no reason why Tidkins should not be below."  
  "Certainly not. He has numerous reasons to conceal himself."  
  "But what is to be done?" said Morcar.  
  "Benstead must go and speak to the man," observed Richard, after a pause.  
  The policeman immediately left the cabin.  
  He crossed the barges and approached the   Fairy  , which was just ready to put
      off.  
  "Holloa! my friend," cried Benstead: "you seem busy this morning?"  
  "Yes—we're going up above bridge a short way," answered the Buffer: "the tide is just
      turning in our favour now, and we haven't a moment to spare."  
  "And the appointment with me?"  
  "Oh! that must stand over for a day or two. How long do you mean to remain here?"  
  "Till I get a couple of good hands to help me in the matter I alluded to the night before
      last," answered Benstead.  
  "Well, I don't like to disappoint a good feller—and   that   you seem to be," said the
      Buffer, "but I really can't say whether I shall be able to do any thing with you, or not. I've
      something else on hand now—and I think I shall leave the river altogether."  
  "You speak openly at all events," said Benstead. "It's very annoying, though; for I relied
      upon you. Can't your pal—the man that you spoke of, you know—have a hand in this matter with
      me?"  
  "No," answered the Buffer shortly. "But I'll tell you who'll put you up to getting the
      assistance you want:—and that's Mossop's foreman. He's a cautious man, and won't meet you half
      way in your conversation; but you can make a confidant of him, and if he can't help you, he's
      sure not to sell you. So now good bye, old feller; and good luck to you."  
  With these words the Buffer loosened the rope that held the   Fairy   alongside the
      barge next to it; and then by means of a boat-hook he pushed the lighter off.  
  "Good bye," exclaimed Benstead; and he hastened back to the   Blossom  .  
  "Now what must be done?" asked Morcar, when these particulars were communicated to him and
      Richard.  
  "It seems clear to me that these men have endangered themselves by something they have just
      been doing," observed Benstead; "and so they're sheering off as fast as they can."  
  "And most likely the Resurrection Man is concealed on board the   Fairy  ," added
      Markham. "We must follow them—we must follow them, at any rate!"  
  "If we take our skiff and pursue them, they will immediately entertain some suspicion," said
      Benstead; "and if   you   go, sir, the Resurrection Man will recognise you the moment he
      catches a glimpse of you."  
  "We have no alternative, my good friends," observed Richard. "Let us all three follow them
      in our skiff: we will dog them—we will watch them; and if they attempt to land, we will board
      them."  
  "Be it so," said Benstead.  
  This plan was immediately put into operation.  
  The skiff was lowered: Markham, the policeman, and the gipsy leapt into it; the two latter
      pulled the oars; and our hero, muffled in a pilot coat, with the collar of which he concealed
      his countenance as much as possible, sate in the stern.  
  "Just keep the lighter in view—and that's all," said Richard. "So long as it does not show
      signs of touching at any place on shore, we had better content ourselves with following it,
      till we are assured that Tidkins is actually on board."  
  "Certainly, sir," answered Benstead. "We might only get ourselves into trouble by forcibly
      entering the   Fairy  , unless we knew that we should catch the game we're in search
      of."  
  The rowers had therefore little more to do than just play with their oars, as the tide bore
      the skiff along with even a greater rapidity than the lighter, although the latter proceeded
      with tolerable speed, in consequence of being empty, and having a fair breeze with it. Thus,
      when the boat drew too near the barge, the rowers backed their oars; and by this manœuvring
      they maintained a convenient distance.  
  On board the lighter, the Buffer and his wife were too busy with the management of
      their vessel—a task to which they were not altogether equal—to notice the watch and pursuit
      instituted by the little boat.  
  In the manner described, the two parties pursued their way up the narrow space left by the
      crowds of shipping for the passage of vessels.  
  The Tower was passed—that gloomy fortalice which has known sighs as full of anguish and
      hearts as oppressed with bitter woe as ever did the prisons of the Inquisition, or the
      dungeons of the Bastille.  
  Then the Custom House was slowly left behind; and Billingsgate, world-renowned for its
      slang, was passed by the pursued and the pursuer.  
  To avoid the arch of London Bridge the Buffer lowered his mast; and then midway between that
      and Southwark Bridge, his intentions became apparent.  
  He was about to put in at a wharf on the Surrey side, where a large board on the building
      announced that lighters were bought or sold.  
  "Pull alongside the   Fairy  ," cried Markham: "we must board her before she touches
      the wharf, or our prey may escape."  
  Benstead and Morcar plied the oars with a vigour which soon brought the boat within a few
      yards of the   Fairy  . The Buffer's attention was now attracted to it for the first
      time; but he did not immediately recognise the two rowers, because they had their backs turned
      towards the lighter.  
  "I should know that man!" suddenly exclaimed Richard, as he contemplated the Buffer, who was
      standing at the tiller, and who had his eyes fixed with some anxiety upon the boat, which was
      evidently pulling towards him.  
  "Who?" asked Benstead.  
  "That man on board the lighter," was the reply.  
  Benstead cast a glance behind him, and said, "He's the man that spoke to me."  
  "I remember him—the villain!—I recollect him now!" cried Richard. "Yes—he is a companion in
      iniquity of Anthony Tidkins: it was he who brought me that false message concerning my
      brother, which nearly cost me my life at Twig Folly!"  
  These words Richard spoke aloud; but they were unintelligible to his two companions, who
      were unacquainted with the incident referred to.  
  They had no time to question him, nor had he leisure to explain his meaning to them; for at
      that moment the boat shot alongside of the lighter.  
  "Markham!" cried the Buffer, in alarm, as he recognised our hero who immediately sprang upon
      the deck.  
  "You know me?" said Richard: "and I have ample reason to remember you. But my present
      business regards   another  ; and if you offer no resistance, I will not harm you."  
  "Who do you want?" asked the Buffer, somewhat reassured by these words.  
  "Your companion," replied Richard.  
  "What! my wife?" ejaculated the Buffer, with a hoarse laugh. "Do you know this gen'leman,
      Moll?"  
  "Cease this jesting," cried Richard sternly; "and remain where you are. Benstead, take care
      that he does not move from the deck: Morcar, come you with me."  
  The Buffer cast looks of surprise and curiosity upon Richard's companions, who, having made
      the boat fast to the lighter, had leapt upon the deck.  
  "What! you, my fine feller?" cried Wicks, addressing himself to Benstead. "I suppose, then,
      this is all a reg'lar plant;—and you're——"  
  "I am a police officer," answered Benstead coolly. "But, as far as I know, we have no
      business with either you or your wife—since you say that this woman is your wife."  
  "Well—so much the better," remarked the Buffer. "And I also suppose your negro is about as
      deaf and dumb as I am?"  
  "About," replied Benstead, unable to suppress a smile. "Keep quiet, and no harm will happen
      to you."  
  "But who is it that you   do   want?" asked the Buffer.  
  "Your friend Tidkins—better known as the Resurrection Man."  
  "Then you won't find him here."  
  In the meantime, Richard and the gipsy had descended into the after-cabin; and they now
      re-appeared upon the deck, their search having been fruitless.  
  "He is not there," said Richard. "Let us look forward."  
  He and Morcar visited the cuddy; but the Resurrection Man was evidently not in the
      lighter.  
  They returned to the after deck; and questioned the Buffer.  
  "I don't know where Tidkins is," was the reply of that individual, who did not dare reveal
      the truth relative to the expedition to the plague ship, and its result; "and even if I did,
      it is not likely that I should blab any thing that would get us both into a scrape, since I
      see that the whole thing with you is a trap, and that man there," he added, pointing to
      Benstead, "is a policeman."  
  "Now, listen," exclaimed Richard. "It is in my power to have you arrested this moment for
      being concerned in a plot against my life—you know how and when; but I pledge you my honour
      that if you will satisfy me relative to Anthony Tidkins, we will depart, and leave you
      unmolested. I scorn treachery, even among men of your description; and I will not offer you a
      bribe. But I require to know how he came to separate from you—for I am convinced that he was
      with you a day or two ago."  
  "Well, sir," said the Buffer, who had found time, while Richard thus spoke, to collect his
      ideas and invent a tale, "Tidkins, me, and some other pals went on a little excursion the
      night afore last—you don't want me to get myself into a scrape by saying what the business
      was; but we fell in with a Thames police boat some way down the river; and Tidkins had a swim
      for it."  
  "Did he escape?" demanded Richard.  
  "Yes," answered the Buffer, boldly. "I saw him get safe on land; and then of course he took
      to his heels."  
  "This looks like the truth, sir," said Benstead aside to our hero. "These fellows have been
      baulked in some scheme—the river-police have got scent of 'em—and that's the reason why this
      man gets off so quick with his lighter."  
  "And as I do not wish to punish this man for the injury he has done me," said Richard,
      glancing towards the Buffer,—"as I can afford to forgive   him  ,—our expedition seems to
      have arrived at its close."  
  "Without success, too, sir," added Morcar.  
  "We shall now leave you," continued Richard, turning towards the Buffer; "but rest
      well assured that, though   we   forbear from molesting you, justice will some day
      overtake you in your evil and wayward courses."  
  "That's my look out," cried the Buffer, brutally.  
  Markham turned away in disgust, and descended to the boat, followed by Morcar and
      Benstead.  
  "We will now proceed to the wharf where I hired the   Blossom  ," said Richard, when
      they had pushed off from the   Fairy  ; "and, my good friends, there I shall dispense
      with your further services. The owner of the lighter can send his men to Rotherhithe to bring
      it up, and thus save us a task which is somewhat beyond our skill."  
  "It is a great pity we have failed to capture the miscreant," observed Morcar.  
  "But your reward has not been the less fairly and honestly earned," replied Richard; "as I
      will prove to you when we land."  
  
  CHAPTER CLXX.   THE BLACK VEIL.  
  Return we now to one whom we have long left, but whom the reader cannot have forgotten.  
  In a sumptuously furnished room at the house of Mr. Wentworth, the surgeon of Lower
      Holloway, Diana Arlington was reclining upon a sofa.  
  She was dressed in an elegant manner; but a large black lace veil, doubled so as to render
      it more impervious to the eye of a beholder, was thrown over her head. The folds were also so
      arranged that the elaborately worked border completely concealed her countenance.  
  She was alone.  
  An open piano, a harp, and piles of music, together with a choice selection of volumes on
      the shelves of a book-case, denoted the nature of her amusements during her residence of
      several weeks at the surgeon's abode.  
  It was mid-day.  
  The damask curtains at the windows were drawn in such a manner as to reduce the light of the
      effulgent sun to a mellow and soft lustre within that apartment.  
  Beautiful nosegays of flowers imparted a delicious fragrance to the atmosphere.  
  The bounty of the Earl of Warrington had furnished the room in a style of luxury which could
      scarcely be surpassed.  
  But was Diana happy?  
  Were those sighs which agitated her heaving bosom,—was that restlessness which she now
      manifested,—was that frequent listening as the sounds of wheels passed along the road,—were
      all these signs of sorrow or of suspense?  
  Patience, gentle reader.  
  The time-piece on the mantel had chimed mid-day.  
  "He is not punctual," murmured Diana.  
  Ten minutes elapsed.  
  "He does not come!" she said aloud.  
  And her restlessness redoubled.  
  At length a carriage drove rapidly up to the door; and a long double knock reverberated
      through the house.  
  "'Tis he!" cried Diana.  
  In a few moments the Earl of Warrington entered the room.  
  "Diana—dearest Diana!" exclaimed the nobleman, starting back when he beheld her countenance
      covered with that ominous dark veil: "is it indeed thus——"  
  "Thus that we meet after so long an absence?" added the Enchantress. "Yes, my lord: Mr.
      Wentworth must have told you as much."  
  "No, Diana," answered the Earl, seating himself upon the sofa by her side, and taking her
      hand: "you know not by what a strange idiosyncrasy my conduct has been influenced. I entrusted
      you to Mr. Wentworth's care: I enjoined him to spare no money that might procure the best
      advice—the most efficient means of cure. Then I resigned myself to a suspense from which I
      might at any moment have relieved my mind by an inquiry;—but at the bottom of that suspense
      was a fond, a burning hope which made the feeling tolerable—nay, even vested the excitement
      with a peculiar charm of its own. I took it for granted that you would be cured—that your
      countenance would be restored to that beauty which had originally attracted me towards
      you;—and now, may I not say—without detriment to my own firm character as a man, and without
      indelicacy towards your feelings,—may I not say that I am disappointed?"  
  "And is this my fault?" asked Diana, in a soft plaintive tone. "Does your lordship suppose
      that I have not also suffered—that I do not at present suffer?"  
  "Oh! yes—you have—you do," answered the nobleman, pressing her hand with warm affection.
      "When we were happy in each other's society, Diana," he continued, "I never spoke to you of
      love: indeed, I experienced for you nothing more than a fervent friendship and profound
      admiration. But since I have ceased to see you—during the interval of our separation—I found
      that you were necessary to me,—that I could not be altogether happy without you,—that your
      conversation had charms which delighted me,—and that your attachment was something on which I
      could ponder with infinite pleasure. My feelings have warmed towards you; and I—I, the Earl of
      Warrington—experience for you a feeling which, if not so romantic and enthusiastic as my
         first affection  , is not the less honourable and sincere."  
  "Ah! my lord," said Diana, in a tremulous tone, "why raise the cup of happiness to my lips,
      when a stern fatality must dash it so cruelly away?"  
  "No, Diana—it shall not be thus dashed away," answered the Earl, emphatically. "I am rich—I
      am my own master: not a living soul has a right to control or question my conduct. The joy
      which I anticipated at this meeting shall not be altogether destroyed. Here, Diana—here I
      offer you my hand; and on your brow—scarred, blemished by an accident though it be—that hand
      shall place a coronet!"  
  may entertain for me! Remember that when I deck myself in the garments befitting
      the rank to which you seek to elevate me, that splendour would be a hideous mockery—like the
      fairest flowers twining round the revolting countenance of a corpse on which the hand of decay
      has already placed its mark! Remember, in a word, that you will be ashamed of her whom, in a
      moment of generous enthusiasm, you offer to reward for so much suffering—suffering which
      originated in no fault of yours:—remember all this, my lord—and pause—reflect—I implore you to
      consider well the step you are taking!"  
  "Diana, I am not a child that I do not know my own mind," answered the Earl: "moreover, I
      have the character of firmness: and I shall   never   repent the proposal I now make
      you—provided you yourself do not give me cause by your conduct."  
  "And on that head——"  
  "I have every confidence—the deepest conviction, Diana," interrupted the Earl, warmly.  
  "Your wishes, then, are my commands—and I obey," returned Diana, her voice thrilling with
      tones expressive of ineffable joy. "But shall we not ratify our engagement with   one  
      kiss?"  
  And as she spoke she slowly drew the black veil from her countenance.  
  The nobleman's heart palpitated, as she did so, with emotions of the most painful
      suspense—even of alarm: he felt like a man who in another instant must know the worst.  
  The veil dropped.  
  "Heavens! Diana," exclaimed the Earl, starting with surprise and indescribable delight.  
  For instead of a countenance seared and marked, he beheld a pure and spotless face glowing
      with a beauty which, even in her loveliest moments, had never seemed to invest her before.  
  Not a scar—not a trace of the accident was visible.  
  Her pouting lips were like the rose moistened with dew: her high, pale forehead was pure as
      marble; and her cheeks were suffused in blushes which seemed to be born beneath the clustering
      ringlets of her dark brown hair.  
  "Ah! Diana," exclaimed the Earl, as he drew her to his breast, "how can I punish thee for
      this cheat!"  
  "You will pardon me," she murmured, as she clasped her warm white arms around his neck, and
      imprinted a delicious kiss upon his lips, while her eyes were filled with a voluptuous
      languor,—"you will pardon me when you know my motives. But can you not divine them?"  
  "You wished to put my affection to the test, Diana," said the Earl. "Yes—I must forgive
      you—for you are beautiful—you are adorable—and I love you!"  
  "And if the sincerest and most devoted attachment on my part can reward you for all your
      past goodness, and for the honours which you now propose to shower upon me, then shall I not
      fail to testify my gratitude," exclaimed Diana.  
  These vows were sealed with innumerable kisses.  
  At length the Earl rose to depart.  
  "Three days hence," he said, "my carriage will be sent to fetch you to the church where our
      hands shall be united."  
  "And our hearts—for ever," returned Diana.  
  The nobleman embraced her once more, and took his leave.  
  But he did not immediately quit the house: he had business with Mr. Wentworth to
      transact.  
  We know not the precise sum that this generous peer presented to the surgeon: this, however,
      we can assure our readers, that he kept his word to the very letter—for Mr. Wentworth became
      rich in one day.  
  "  If you succeed in restoring her to me  ," had the Earl said, when he first entrusted
      Diana to the surgeon's care, "  in that perfection of beauty which invested her when I took
       leave of her yesterday—without a mark, without a scar,—your fortune shall be my care, and you
       will have no need to entertain anxiety relative to the future, with the Earl of Warrington as
       your patron  ."  
  Such were the nobleman's words upon that occasion; and, on the present, he amply fulfilled
      his promise.  
  Three days after, Diana became the Countess of Warrington.  
  The happy news were thus communicated by the bride to her sincerest and best friend:—  
  
  Grosvenor Square   
  March 22nd, 1840   
  To Her Serene Highness the Grand Duchess of Castelcicala.   
  "I steal a few minutes from a busy day, my dearest Eliza,—for by that dear and familiar
       name you permit me to call you,—to inform you that I have this morning united my destinies
       with those of the Earl of Warrington. In a former letter I acquainted you with the dreadful
       accident which menaced me with horrible scars and marks for life:—you will be pleased to know
       that the skill and unwearied attention of my medical attendant have succeeded in completely
       restoring me to my former appearance—so that not a trace of the injury remains upon my
       person. The Earl of Warrington has elevated me to the proud position of his wife: the
       remainder of my existence shall be devoted to the study of his happiness.  
  "I regret to perceive by your letters, dearest Eliza, that   you   are not altogether
       happy. You say that the Grand Duke loves you; but his temper is arbitrary—his disposition
       despotic. And yet he is amiable and gentle in his bearing towards you. Study to solace
       yourself with this conviction. He has elevated you to a rank amongst the reigning princesses
       of Europe; and as you have embraced the honours, so must you endure some few of the political
       alarms and annoyances which are invariably attached to so proud a position. You tremble lest
       the conduct of the Grand Duke, in alienating from him those who are considered his best
       friends, should endanger his crown. Are you convinced that those persons are indeed his
       friends! Of course I know not—I cannot determine: I would only counsel you, my dearest
       friend, not to form hasty conclusions relative to the policy of his Serene Highness.  
  "I perceive by the English newspapers, that there are numerous Castelcicalan refugees in
       this country. Amongst them are General Grachia and Colonel Morosino, both of whom, I believe,
       occupied high offices in their native land. They, however, appear, so far as I can learn, to
       be dwelling tranquilly in London—no doubt awaiting the happy moment when it shall please your
       illustrious husband to recall them from exile.  
  "His Highness Alberto of Castelcicala—(for you are aware that the Earl of Warrington
       communicated to me some time ago the real rank and name of   Count Alteroni  )—continues
       to reside at his villa near Richmond. This much I glean from the public journals; but
       doubtless you are well acquainted with all these facts, inasmuch as your government has a
       representative at the English court.  
  "Adieu for the present, dearest Eliza:—I knew not, when I sate down, that I should have
       been enabled to write so long a letter. But I must now change my dress; for the carriage will
       be here shortly to convey me to Warrington Park, where we are to pass the honeymoon.  
   "Ever your sincere friend,   
  "DIANA."    
  a moment of caprice, had raised an obscure English lady to a ducal throne, placed,
      when in a similar mood, a coronet upon the brow of another who had long filled a most
      equivocal position in society.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXI.   MR. GREENWOOD'S DINNER-PARTY.  
  Some few days after the events just related, Mr. G. M. Greenwood, M.P., entertained several
      gentlemen at dinner at his residence in Spring Gardens.  
  The banquet was served up at seven precisely:—Mr. Greenwood had gradually made his dinner
      hour later as he had risen in the world; and he was determined that if ever he became a
      baronet, he would never have that repast put on table till half-past eight o'clock.  
  On the present occasion, as we ere now observed, the guests were conducted to the
      dining-room at seven.  
  The thick curtains were drawn over the windows: the apartment was a blaze of light.  
  The table groaned beneath the massive plate: the banquet was choice and luxurious in the
      highest degree.  
  On Mr. Greenwood's right sate the Marquis of Holmesford—a nobleman of sixty-three years of
      age, of immense wealth, and notorious for the unbounded licentiousness of his mode of life.
      His conversation, when his heart was somewhat warmed with wine, bore ample testimony to the
      profligacy of his morals: seductions were his boast; and he frequently indulged in obscene
      anecdotes or expressions which even called a blush to the cheeks of his least fastidious male
      acquaintances.  
  On Mr. Greenwood's left was Sir T. M. B. Muzzlehem, Bart., M.P., and Whipper-in to the Tory
      party.  
  Next to the two guests already described, sate Sir Cherry Bounce, Bart., and the Honourable
      Major Smilax Dapper—the latter of whom had recently acquired a grade in the service   by
       purchase  .  
  Mr. James Tomlinson, Mr. Sheriff Popkins, Mr. Alderman Sniff, Mr. Bubble, Mr. Chouse, and
      Mr. Twitchem (a solicitor) completed the party.  
  Now this company, the reader will perceive, was somewhat a mixed one: the aristocracy of the
      West End, the civic authority, and the members of the financial and legal spheres, were
      assembled on the present occasion.  
  The fact is, gentle reader, that this was a "business dinner;" and that you may be no longer
      kept in suspense, we will at once inform you that when the cloth was drawn, Mr. Greenwood, in
      a brief speech, proposed "Success to the Algiers, Oran, and Morocco Railway."  
  The toast was drunk with great applause.  
  "With your permission, my lord and gentlemen," said Mr. Twitchem, the solicitor, "I will
      read the Prospectus."  
  "Yeth, wead the pwothpeckthuth, by all meanth," exclaimed Sir Cherry Bounce.  
  "Strike me—but I'm anxious to hear   that  ," cried the Honourable Major Dapper.  
  The solicitor then drew a bundle of papers from his pocket, and in a business-like manner
      read the contents of one which he extracted from the parcel:—  
  
  "ALGIERS, ORAN, AND MOROCCO GREAT DESERT RAILWAY.  
  "(Provisionally Registered Pursuant to Act.)  
  "Capital £1,600,000, in 80,000 shares, of £20 each.  
  "Deposit £3 2s. per Share.  
  "COMMITTEE OF DIRECTION.  
  "  The Most Honourable the Marquis of Holmesford  ,  
  G. C. B., Chairman.  
  "  George M. Greenwood  , Esq., M.P., Deputy Chairman.  
  "Sir T. M. B. Muzzlehem, Bart., M.P.  
  "James Tomlinson, Esq.  
  "Sylvester Popkins, Esq., Sheriff of London.  
  "Percival Peter Sniff, Esq., Alderman.  
  "Sir Cherry Bounce, Bart.  
  "The Honourable Major Smilax Dapper.  
  "Charles Cecil Bubble, Esq.  
  "Robert James Baring Chouse, Esq.  
  "This Railway is intended to connect the great cities of Algiers and Morocco, passing close
       to the populous and flourishing town of Oran. It will thus be the means of transit for
       passengers and traffic over a most important section of the Great Desert, which, though
       placed in maps in a more southernly latitude, nevertheless extends to the District through
       which this Line is to pass.  
  "The French government has willingly accorded its countenance to the proposed scheme; and
       the Governor-General of Algeria has expressed his sincere wish that it may be carried into
       effect.  
  "The Morocco government (one of the most enlightened in Africa) has also assented to the
       enterprise; and the Emperor, the better to manifest the favour with which he views the
       project, ordered his Prime Minister to be soundly bastinadoed for daring to question its
       practicability. This proof of the imperial wisdom has filled the Committee and friends of the
       enterprise with the most sanguine hopes.  
  "The support of the principal tribes, and other influential parties in Algeria and Morocco,
       has been secured.  
  "The Emperor of Morocco, on one side, and his Excellency the Governor-General of Algeria,
       on the other, have signified their readiness to grant a strong armed force to protect the
       engineers and operatives, when laying down the rails, from being devoured by wild beasts, or
       molested by predatory tribes.  
  "The ex-Emir of Mascara, Abd-el-Kadir, has entered into a bond not to interfere with the
       works while in progress, nor to molest those who may travel by the Line when it shall be
       opened; and, in order to secure this important concession on the part of the ex-Emir, the
       Committee have agreed to make that Prince an annual present of clothes, linen, tobacco, and
       ardent spirit.  
  "It is with the greatest satisfaction that the Committee of Direction is enabled to
       announce these brilliant prospects; and the Committee beg to state that application for the
       allotment of Shares must be made without delay to James Tomlinson, Esq., Stockbroker,
       Tokenhouse Yard.  
  "By order of the Board,  
  "SHARPLY TWITCHEM, Secretary."     
  "On my thoul, there never wath any thing better—conthith, bwief, ekthplithit, and
      attwactive!" cried Sir Cherry.  
  "Sure to take—as certain as I'm in Her Majesty's service—strike me!" exclaimed Major
      Dapper.  
  "I think you ought to have thrown in something about African beauties," observed the
      Marquis: "they are particularly stout, you know, being all fed on a preparation of rice called
         couscousou  . I really think I must pay a visit to those parts next spring."  
  "I will undertake to get one of the members of the government to introduce a favourable
      mention of the project into his speech to-morrow night, in the House," said Sir T. M. B.
      Muzzlehem: "but you must send him a hundred shares the first thing in the morning."  
  "That shall be done," answered Mr. Twitchem.  
  "Well, my lord and gentlemen," observed Mr. Greenwood, "I think that this little
      business looks uncommonly well. The project is no doubt feasible—I mean, the shares are
      certain to go off well. Mr. Bubble and Mr. Chouse will undertake to raise them in public
      estimation, by the reports they will circulate in Capel Court. Of course, my lord and
      gentlemen, when they are at a good premium, we shall all sell; and if we do not realise twenty
      or thirty thousand pounds each—  each  , mark me—then shall you be at liberty to say that
      the free and independent electors of Rottenborough have chosen as their representative a dolt
      and an idiot in the person of your humble servant."  
  "Whatever Mr. Greenwood undertakes is certain to turn to gold," observed Mr. Bubble.  
  "Can't be otherwise," said Mr. Chouse.  
  "Mr. Greenwood's name stands so well in the City," added Mr. Sheriff Popkins.  
  "And his lordship's countenance to the enterprise is a tower of strength," exclaimed Mr.
      Alderman Sniff.  
  "I have already had many inquiries concerning the project," said Mr. Tomlinson.  
  "Yes—Chouse and I took care to circulate reports in the City that such a scheme was in
      contemplation," observed Bubble.  
  "Gentlemen, I think that all difficulties have been provided against in this Prospectus,"
      cried Mr. Twitchem:—"the predatory tribes, Abd-el-Kadir, and the wild beasts."  
  "Nothing could be better," answered Mr. Greenwood. "Take care that the Prospectus be sent as
      an advertisement to every London journal, and the leading provincial ones. You know that I am
      a shareholder in one of the London newspapers; and I can promise you that it will not fail to
      cry up our enterprise. In fact, my lord and gentlemen," added Mr. Greenwood, "I have at this
      moment in my pocket a copy of a leading article—that will appear in that paper, the day after
      to-morrow."  
  "My gwathioth!—do read it, Greenwood," cried Sir Cherry Bounce.  
  "Yes: I'd give the world to hear it—smite me!" ejaculated Major Dapper.  
  Mr. Greenwood glanced complacently around, and then drew forth a printed slip, the contents
      of which were as follow:—  
  "In our opposition to those multifarious railway projects which are starting up on all
      sides, as if some Cadmus had been sowing bubbles in our financial soil, we have only been
      swayed by our fears lest such a number of schemes, which never can obtain the sanction of
      Parliament, should injure the credit, and impair the monetary prosperity of the country. It
      must not, however, be supposed that we are inimical to those undertakings which are based upon
      fair, intelligible, and reasonable grounds. There are many talented, honourable, and wealthy
      individuals engaged in speculations of this nature; and, their motives being beyond suspicion,
      no one of common sense can for a moment suppose that we include   their   projects
      amongst the airy nothings against which we are compelled to put the public on their guard. The
      extension of railways is internally connected with the progress of civilisation; and when we
      behold the principle applied to distant and semi-barbarian countries—as in the case, for
      instance, of that truly grand and promising enterprise, the Algiers, Oran, and Morocco Great
      Desert Railway—we feel proud that England should have the honour of taking the initiative in
      thus propagating beyond its own limits the elements of civilisation, and the germs of
      humanising influences. At the same time we shall continue our strenuous opposition to all
      railway schemes which we consider to be mere bubbles blown from the pipes of intriguants and
      adventurers; and we shall never pause until in those pipes we put an effectual stopper."  
   "Thuper-ekthellent—glowiouth—majethtic—athtounding!" ejaculated Sir Cherry, quite in
      raptures.  
  "You perceive how beautifully—how delicately the puff is insinuated," said Mr. Greenwood.
      "That article will have an astonishing effect."  
  "No doubt of it," observed the Marquis. "You might have contrived to introduce something
      relative to the Emperor of Morocco's ladies. Why not state that the Moorish terminus will
      command a view of the gardens of the imperial harem, where those divine creatures—each of
      seventeen stone weight—are wont to ramble in a voluptuous undress?"  
  "No—no, my lord; that would never do!" cried Greenwood, with a smile. "And now, my lord and
      gentlemen, we perfectly understand each other. Each takes as many shares as he pleases. When
      they reach a high premium, each may sell as he thinks fit. Then, when we have realized our
      profits, we will inform the shareholders that insuperable difficulties prevent the carrying
      out of the project,—that Abd-el-Kadir, for instance, has violated his agreement and declared
      against the scheme,—that the Committee of Direction will therefore retain a sum sufficient to
      defray the expenses already incurred, and that the remaining capital paid up shall be returned
      to the shareholders."  
  "That is exactly what, I believe, we all understand," observed Mr. Twitchem.  
  "For my part," said Lord Holmesford, "I only embark in the enterprise to oblige my friend
      Greenwood; and therefore I am agreeable to any thing that he proposes."  
  Matters being thus amicably arranged, the company passed the remainder of the evening in the
      conviviality of the table.  
  At eleven o'clock the guests all retired, with the exception of the Marquis of
      Holmesford.  
  "Now, friend Greenwood," said this nobleman, "you will keep your engagement with me?"  
  "Yes, my lord: I am prepared to accompany you."  
  "Let us depart at once, then," added the Marquis, rising from his chair: "my carriage has
      been waiting some time; and I long to introduce you to the voluptuous mysteries of Holmesford
      House."  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXII.   THE MYSTERIES OF HOLMESFORD HOUSE.  
  The Marquis and Mr. Greenwood alighted at the door of Holmesford House—one of the most
      splendid palaces of the aristocracy at the West End.  
  The Marquis conducted his visitor into a large ante-room at the right hand of the spacious
      hall.  
  The table in the middle of the apartment was covered with the most luxurious fruits,
      nosegays of flowers, preserves, sweetmeats, and delicious wines.  
  From this room three doors afforded communication elsewhere. One opened into the hall, and
      had afforded them ingress: the other, on the opposite side, belonged to a corridor, with which
      were connected the baths; and the third, at the bottom, communicated with a vast saloon, of
      which we shall have more to say very shortly.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The Marquis said to the servant who conducted him and Mr. Greenwood to the ante-room, "You
      may retire; and let   them   ring the bell when all is ready."  
  The domestic withdrew.  
  The Marquis motioned Greenwood to seat himself at the table; and, filling two coloured
      glasses with real Johannisberg, he said, "We must endeavour to while away half an hour; and
      then I can promise you a pleasing entertainment."  
  The nobleman and the member of Parliament quaffed the delicious wine, and indulged in
      discourse upon the most voluptuous subjects.  
  "For my part," said the Marquis, "I study how to enjoy life. I possess an immense fortune,
      and do not scruple to spend it upon all the pleasures I can fancy, or which suggest themselves
      to me. I am not such an idiot as to imagine that I possess the vigour or natural warmth which
      characterised my youth; and therefore I have become an Epicurean in my recreations. I invent
      and devise the means of inflaming my passions; and then—  then   I am young once more.
      You will presently behold something truly oriental in the refinements on voluptuousness which
      I have conceived to produce an artificial effect on the temperament when nature is languid and
      weak.  
  "Your lordship is right to fan the flame that burns dimly," observed Greenwood, who,
      unprincipled as he was, could not, however, avoid a feeling of disgust when he heard that old
      voluptuary, with one foot in the grave, thus shamelessly express himself.  
  "Wine and women, my dear Greenwood," continued the Marquis, "are the only earthly enjoyments
      worth living for. I hope to die, with my head pillowed on the naked—heaving bosom of beauty,
      and with a glass of sparkling champagne in my hand."  
  "Your lordship would then even defy the pangs of the grim monster who spares no one," said
      Greenwood.  
  Armenia in his harem,—had more deeply drunk than I of the pleasures of love."  
  Just as the aged voluptuary uttered these words, a silver bell that hung in the apartment
      was agitated gently by a wire which communicated with the adjoining saloon.  
  "Now all is in readiness!" exclaimed the Marquis: "follow me."  
  The nobleman opened the door leading into the saloon, which he entered, accompanied by
      Greenwood.  
  He then closed the door behind him.  
  The saloon was involved in total obscurity; the blackest darkness reigned there, unbroken by
      a ray.  
  "Give me your hand," said the Marquis.  
  Greenwood complied; and the nobleman led him to a sofa at a short distance from the door by
      which they had entered.  
  They both seated themselves on the voluptuous cushions.  
  For some moments a solemn silence prevailed.  
  At length that almost painful stillness was broken by the soft notes of a delicious melody,
      which, coming from the farther end of the apartment, stole, with a species of enchanting
      influence, upon the ear.  
  Gentle and low was that sweet music when it began; but by degrees it grew louder—though
      still soft and ravishing in the extreme.  
  Then a chorus of charming female voices suddenly burst forth; and the union of that vocal
      and instrumental perfection produced an effect thrilling—intoxicating—joyous, beyond
      description.  
  The melody created in the mind of Greenwood an anxious desire to behold those unseen
      choristers whose voices were so harmonious, so delightful.  
  The dulcet, metallic sounds agitated the senses with feelings of pleasure, and made the
      heart beat with vague hopes and expectations.  
  For nearly twenty minutes did that delicious concert last. Love was the subject of the
      song,—Love, not considered as an infant boy, nor as a merciless tyrant,—but Love depicted as
      the personification of every thing voluptuous, blissful, and enchanting,—Love, the
      representative of all the joys which earth in reality possesses, or which the warmest
      imagination could possibly conceive,—Love apart from the refinements of sentiment, and
      contemplated only as the paradise of sensualities.  
  And never did sweeter voices warble the fervid language of passion through the medium of a
      more enchanting poesy!  
  Twenty minutes, we said, passed with wonderful rapidity while that inspiring concert
      lasted.  
  But even then the melody did not cease suddenly. It gradually grew fainter and fainter—dying
      away, as it were, in expiring sounds of silver harmony, as if yielding to the voluptuous
      enhancement of its own magic influence.  
  And now, just as the last murmur floated to the ears of the raptured listeners, a bell
      tinkled at a distance; and in an instant—as if by magic—the spacious saloon was lighted up
      with a brilliancy which produced a sensation like an electric shock.  
  At the same time, the music struck up in thrilling sounds once more; and a bevy of lovely
      creatures, whom the glare suddenly revealed upon a stage at the farther end of the apartment,
      became all life and activity in a voluptuous dance.  
  Three chandeliers of transparent crystal had suddenly vomited forth jets of flame; and round
      the walls the illumination had sprung into existence, with simultaneous suddenness, from
      innumerable silver sconces.  
  A glance around showed Greenwood that he was in a vast and lofty apartment, furnished with
      luxurious ottomans in the oriental style; and with tables groaning beneath immense vases
      filled with the choicest flowers.  
  The walls were covered with magnificent pictures, representing the most voluptuous scenes of
      the heathen mythology and of ancient history.  
  The figures in those paintings were as large as life; and no prudery had restrained the
      artist's pencil in the delineation of the luxuriant subjects which he had chosen.  
  There was Lucretia, struggling—vainly struggling with the ardent Tarquin,—her drapery torn
      by his rude hands away from her lovely form, which the brutal violence of his mad passion had
      rendered weak, supple, and yielding.  
  There was Helen, reclining in more than semi-nudity on the couch to which her languishing
      and wanton looks invited the enamoured Phrygian youth, who was hastily laying aside his armour
      after a combat with the Greeks.  
  There was Messalina—that imperial harlot, whose passions were so insatiable and whose crimes
      were so enormous,—issuing from a bath to join her lover, who impatiently awaited her beneath a
      canopy in a recess, and which was surmounted by the Roman diadem.  
  Then there were pictures representing the various amours of Jupiter,—Leda, Latona, Semele,
      and Europa—the mistresses of the god—all drawn in the most exciting attitudes, and endowed
      with the most luscious beauties.  
  But if those creations of art were sufficient to inflame the passions of even that age when
      the blood seems frozen in the veins, how powerful must have been the effect produced by those
      living, breathing, moving houris who were now engaged in a rapid and exciting dance to the
      most ravishing music.  
  They wore six in number, and all dressed alike, in a drapery so light and gauzy that it was
      all but transparent, and so scanty that it afforded no scope for the sweet romancing of fancy,
      and left but little need for guesses.  
  But if their attire were thus uniform, their style of beauty was altogether different.  
  We must, however, permit the Marquis to describe them to Greenwood—which he did in
      whispers.  
  "That fair girl on the right," he said, "with the brilliant complexion, auburn hair, and red
      cherry lips, is from the north—a charming specimen of Scotch beauty. Mark how taper is her
      waist, and yet how ample her bust! She is only nineteen, and has been in my house for the last
      three years. Her voice is charming; and she sings some of her native airs with exquisite
      taste. The one next to her, with the brown hair, and who is somewhat stout in form, though, as
      you perceive, not the less active on that account, is an English girl—a beauty of Lancashire.
      She is twenty-two, and appeared four years ago on the stage. From thence she passed into the
      keeping of a bishop, who took lodgings for her in great Russell Street, Bloomsbury. The Right
      Reverend Prelate one evening invited me to sup there; and three days afterwards she removed to
      my house."  
  "Not with the consent of the bishop, I should imagine?" observed Greenwood,
      laughing.  
  "Oh! no—no," returned the Marquis, chuckling and coughing at the same time. "The one who is
      next to her—the third from the left, I mean—is an Irish girl. Look how beautifully she is
      made. What vigorous, strong, and yet elegantly formed limbs! And what elasticity—what airy
      lightness in the dance! Did you observe that pirouette? How the drapery spread out from her
      waist like a circular fan! Is she not a charming creature?"  
  "She is, indeed!" exclaimed Greenwood. "Tall, elegant, and graceful."  
  "And her tongue is just tipped with enough of the Irish accent—I cannot call it
         brogue   in so sweet a being—to render her conversation peculiarly interesting. And
      now mark her smile! Oh! the coquette—what a roguish look! Has she not wickedness in those
      sparkling black eyes?"  
  "She seems an especial favourite, methinks," whispered Greenwood.  
  "Yes—I have a sneaking preference for her, I must admit," answered the Marquis. "But I also
      like my little French girl, who is dancing next to Kathleen. Mademoiselle Anna is an exquisite
      creature—and such a wanton! What passion is denoted by her burning glances! How graceful are
      her movements: survey her now—she beats them all in that soft abandonment of limb which she
      just displayed. Her mother was a widow, and sold the lovely Anna to a French Field-Marshal,
      when she was only fifteen. The Field-Marshal, who was also a duke and enormously rich, placed
      her in a magnificent mansion in the Chausseé d'Antin, and settled a handsome sum upon her.
      But, at his death, she ran through it all, became involved in debt, and was glad to accept my
      offers two years ago."  
  "She is very captivating," said Greenwood. "How gracefully she rounds her dazzling white
      arms!"  
  "And how well she throws herself into the most voluptuous attitudes—and all, too, as if
      unstudied!" returned the Marquis. "The beauty next to her is a Spaniard. The white drapery, in
      my opinion, sets off her clear, transparent, olive skin, to the utmost advantage. The blood
      seems to boil in her veins: she is all fire—all passion. How brilliant are her large black
      eyes! Behold the glossy magnificence of her raven hair! Tall—straight as an arrow—how
      commanding, and yet how graceful is her form! And when she smiles—now—you can perceive the
      dazzling whiteness of her teeth. Last of all I must direct your attention to my Georgian—"  
  "A real Georgian?" exclaimed Greenwood.  
  "A real Georgian," answered the Marquis; "and, as Byron describes his Katinka, 'white and
      red.' Her large melting blue eyes are full of voluptuous, lazy, indolent, but not the less
      impassioned love. Her dark brown hair is braided in a manner to display its luxuriance, and
      yet leave the entire face clear for you to admire its beauty. Look at that fine oval
      countenance: how pure is the red—how delicate the white! Nature has no artificial auxiliaries
      there! And now when she casts down her eyes, mark how the long, silken black lashes, slightly
      curling, repose upon the white skin beneath the eyes. Is not that a charming creature? The
      symmetry of her form is perfect. Her limbs are stout and plump; but how slender are her
      ankles, and how exquisitely turned her wrists! Then look at her hand. What beautiful, long
      taper fingers! How sweet are her movements—light, yet languishing at the same time!"  
  "What is the name of that beauty?" asked Greenwood.  
  "Malkhatoun," replied the Marquis; "which means   The Full Moon  . That was the name of
      the wife of Osman, the founder of the Ottoman empire."  
  "And how did you procure such a lovely creature?" inquired Greenwood, enraptured with the
      beauty of the oriental girl.  
  "Six months ago I visited Constantinople," answered the Marquis of Holmesford; "and in the
      Slave-Market I beheld that divinity. Christians are not allowed to purchase slaves; but a
      convenient native merchant was found, who bought her for me. I brought her to England; and she
      is well contented to be here. Her own apartment is fitted up in an oriental style; she has her
      Koran, and worships Alla at her leisure; and when I make love to her, she swears by the
      Prophet Mahommed that she is happy here. The romance of the thing is quite charming."  
  "Of course she cannot speak English?" said Greenwood interrogatively.  
  "I beg your pardon," answered the Marquis. "She has an English master, who is well
      acquainted with Persian, which she speaks admirably; and I can assure you that she is a most
      willing pupil. But of that you shall judge for yourself presently."  
  During this conversion, the dance proceeded.  
  Nothing could be more voluptuous than that spectacle of six charming creatures, representing
      the loveliness of as many different countries, engaged in a   pas de six   in
      which each studied how to set off the graces of her form to the utmost advantage.  
  The genial warmth of the apartment—the delicious perfume of the flowers—the brilliancy of
      the light—the exciting nature of the pictures—and the enchantment of that dance in which six
      beings of the rarest beauty were engaged,—filled the mind of Greenwood with an ecstatic
      delirium.  
  Not the rich and luscious loveliness of Diana Arlington, whom circumstances had made his
      own,—not the matured and exuberant charms of Eliza Sydney, who had escaped his snares,—not the
      bewitching beauty of Ellen Monroe, from whose brow he had plucked the diadem of purity,—nor
      the licentious fascinations of Lady Cecilia Harborough, who sold herself to him for his
      gold,—not all these had so stirred his heart, so inflamed his ardent imagination, as the
      spectacle which he now beheld.  
  At length the dance terminated.  
  The Marquis then advanced towards the stage, accompanied by Greenwood, and said, "Many
      thanks, young ladies, for this entertainment. Allow me to present an intimate friend of mine—a
      gentleman whom I am anxious to initiate in the mysteries of Holmesford House."  
  Greenwood bowed; the six beauties returned his salutation; and the Marquis then proposed to
      adjourn to the ante-room, where supper was served up.  
  The ladies descended from the platform by a flight of steps on one side.  
  "I shall give my arm to Kathleen," said the Marquis. "Do you escort whomever you fancy.
      There are no jealousies here."  
  Without hesitation Greenwood advanced towards the charming Malkhatoun, who took
      the arm which he presented to her, with a sweet smile—as if of gratitude for the
      preference.  
  As Greenwood thus stepped forward to meet her, he now for the first time observed the
      orchestra, which was situated in a large recess on the right of the stage, and had
      consequently been unseen by him from the place which he had originally occupied at the other
      end of the saloon.  
  The party now proceeded to the ante-room before mentioned.  
  There a magnificent repast was served up.  
  They all seated themselves at table, Kathleen next to the Marquis, and Malkhatoun by the
      side of Greenwood.  
  At first the conversation languished somewhat, the ladies being abashed and reserved in the
      presence of a stranger; but as they grew warmed by degrees with the generous wine, their
      tongues were unlocked; and in half an hour they rattled and chatted away as if they had never
      known restraint.  
  They laughed and displayed their beautiful teeth: their eyes flashed fire, or became
      voluptuously melting: and their cheeks were animated with the hues of the rose.  
  Even the fair Mohammedan did not refuse the sparkling champagne which effervesced so
      deliciously over the brim of the crystal glass.  
  The Scotch and Irish girls warbled the sweetest snatches of song which Greenwood had ever
      heard; and then the French damsel rose and gave admirable imitations of Taglioni's, Ellsler's,
      and Duvernay's respective styles of dancing—throwing, however, into her movements and
      attitudes a wantonness which even the most exciting efforts of those
         artistes   never displayed.  
  It was now nearly two in the morning; and Greenwood intimated to the Marquis his wish to
      retire.  
  "Just as you please," replied the old voluptuary, who had drawn Kathleen upon his knee, and
      was toying with her as if they were unobserved: "but if you like to accept of a bed here,
      there is one at your service—and," he added, in a whisper, "you need not be separated from
      Malkhatoun."  
  "Is your lordship in earnest?" asked Greenwood, also in a low tone, while joy flashed from
      his eyes.  
  "Certainly I am," replied the Marquis. "Do you think that I brought you hither merely to
      tantalize you?"  
  Greenwood smiled, and then redoubled his attentions towards the charming Georgian, who
      returned his smiles, and seemed to consider herself honoured by his caresses.  
  On a signal from the Marquis, the Scotch, English, French, and Spanish girls withdrew.  
  "One glass of wine in honour of those houris who have just left us!" cried the nobleman, who
      was already heated with frequent potations, and inflamed by the contiguity of his Hibernian
      mistress.  
  "With pleasure," responded Greenwood.  
  The toast was drunk; and then the Marquis whispered something to Greenwood, pointing at the
      same time to the door which opened into the bathing rooms.  
  The member of Parliament nodded an enraptured assent.  
  "There is a constant supply of hot water, kept ready for use," observed the nobleman. "Each
      room is provided with a marble bath; and vases of eau-de-cologne afford the means of cooling
      the water and imparting to it a delicious perfume at the same time. You will also find wines,
      fruits, and all species of delicate refreshments there; and adjoining each bath-room is a
      bed-chamber. With Malkhatoun as your companion, you may imagine yourself a Sultan in the
      privacy of his harem; and, remember, that no soul will intrude upon you in that joyous
      retreat."  
  Greenwood presented his hand to Malkhatoun, and led her away in obedience to the nobleman's
      suggestion.  
  The door by which they left the ante-room admitted them into a passage dimly lighted with a
      single lamp, and where several doors opened into the bathing apartments.  
  Into one of those rooms Greenwood and the beautiful Georgian passed.  
  Shortly afterwards the Marquis and Kathleen entered another.  
  Here we must pause: we dare not penetrate farther into the mysteries of Holmesford
      House.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXIII.   THE ADIEUX.  
  Our narrative must now take a leap of several months.  
  It was the middle of October.  
  Once more in the vicinity of Count Alteroni's mansion near Richmond, a handsome young man
      and a beautiful dark-eyed maiden were walking together.  
  Need we say that they were Richard and the charming Isabella?  
  The countenances of both wore an expression of melancholy; but that indication of feeling
      was commingled with the traces of other emotions.  
  Richard's eyes beamed with ardour, and his lips denoted stern resolution: Isabella's
      bewitching features showed that her generous soul entertained warm and profound hope, even
      though the cloud sate upon her brow.  
  "Yes, my adored one," said Richard, gazing tenderly upon her, "it is decided! To-morrow I
      embark on this expedition. But I could not quit England without seeing you once more, dearest
      Isabella; and for two or three days have I vainly wandered in this neighbourhood with the hope
      of meeting you—alone."  
  "Oh! Richard, had I for one moment divined that you were so near, I should have come to
      you," answered the Princess; "and this you know well! If I have hitherto discouraged
      clandestine meetings and secret correspondence—save on one or two occasions—it was simply
      because you should not have reason to think lightly of me;—but you are well aware, Richard,
      that my heart is thine—unchangeably thine,—and that my happiest moments are those I pass with
      thee!"  
  restriction must in some degree be removed, and you will permit me to write to
      you from time to time."  
  "It would be an absurd affectation and a ridiculous prudery, were I to refuse you," replied
      Isabella. "Yes, dear Richard—write to me;—and write often," she added, tears starting into her
      eyes.  
  "A thousand thanks, Isabella, for this kind permission—this proof of your love. And, oh! to
      whatever perils I am about to oppose myself face to face,—in whatever dangers I may be
      involved,—whatever miseries or privations I may be destined to endure,—the thought of you, my
      own adored Isabella, will make all seem light! But I do not anticipate much difficulty in the
      attainment of our grand object. General Grachia, Colonel Morosino, and the other chiefs of
      this enterprise, have so well, so prudently, so cautiously digested all the measures necessary
      to ensure success, that failure is scarcely possible. The tyranny of the Grand Duke and of his
      shameless Ministry has reduced the Castelcicalans to despair. We have three fine vessels; and
      twelve hundred devoted patriots will form the expedition. The moment we land, we shall be
      welcomed with enthusiasm. And if an opportunity should serve for me to show myself worthy of
      the confidence that General Grachia and his colleagues have placed in me,—if," continued
      Richard, his handsome countenance now lighted up with a glow of heroic enthusiasm,—"if the aid
      of my feeble efforts can in any way demonstrate my zeal in favour of the constitutional cause,
      be well assured, dearest Isabella, that it is not an idle boaster, nor a braggart coward who
      now assures thee that he will not dishonour the service in which he has embarked."  
  "Of that I feel convinced, Richard," exclaimed the Italian lady, whose soul caught the
      enthusiasm which animated her lover. "But you know not the wild hopes—the exalted visions
      which have at times filled my imagination, since I heard a few weeks ago that you were one of
      the chiefs of this enterprise, the preparations for which were communicated to my father. For
      you are doubtless aware that General Grachia   has   made my father acquainted with his
      intentions and projects——"  
  "Which the Prince discountenances," added Richard, with a sigh. "Nevertheless, he is perhaps
      right: but if we succeed, Isabella—oh! if we succeed, your father becomes the sovereign of a
      great and enlightened people! Then—what hope will remain for me?"  
  "Providence will not desert us, Richard," answered Isabella. "Said I not ere now that the
      wildest hopes—the most exalted visions have dazzled my imagination? I will not describe them
      to you, Richard; but need I confess that they are connected with yourself? The dying words of
      our poor friend Mary Anne have made an impression upon me which I can never forget."  
  "I can well divine all the hopes and aspirations which   her   prophetic language was
      calculated to excite," returned Markham; "for there have been moments when I was weak enough
      to yield to the same influence myself. But the future is with the Almighty; and He must ordain
      our happiness or our misery! I must now leave you, my beloved Isabella:—when I am away thou
      wilt think of me often?"  
  "Oh! Richard, will you really depart? will you venture on this expedition, so fraught with
      danger?" cried Isabella, now giving way to her grief as the moment of separation drew nigh. "I
      told you to hope—I wished to console you; but it is I who require consolation when about to
      say farewell to you! Oh! Richard, if you knew what anguish now fills my heart, you would be
      enabled to estimate all my love for you!"  
  "I do—I do, adored Isabella!" ejaculated Markham, pressing her to his breast. "How
      devotedly—how faithfully you have loved me, I never can forget! When spurned from your
      father's house—overwhelmed with the most cruel suspicions, your love remained unchanged; and
      in many a bitter, bitter hour, have I derived sweet solace from the conviction that thy heart
      was mine! Oh! Isabella, God in his mercy grant that I may return from this enterprise with
      some honour to myself! It is not that I am influenced by motives of selfish ambition;—it is
      that I may remove at least one of the hundred obstacles which oppose our union. And now adieu,
      my angel—my dearly-beloved Isabella: adieu—adieu!"  
  "Farewell, Richard—farewell, dearest one—my first and only love," murmured Isabella, as she
      wept bitterly upon his breast.  
  Then they embraced each other with that passionate ardour—with that lingering unwillingness
      to separate—with that profound dread to tear themselves asunder, which lovers in the moment of
      parting alone can know.  
  "Let us be firm, Isabella," said Richard: "who can tell what happiness my share in this
      enterprise may create for us?"  
  "Yes—something tells me that it will be so," answered Isabella; "and that hope sustains
      me!"  
  Another embrace—and they parted.  
  Yes—they parted,—that handsome young man and that charming Italian maiden!  
  And soon they waved their handkerchiefs for the last time;—then, in a few moments, they were
      lost to each other's view.  
  Richard returned home to his house at Lower Holloway.  
  He had visited the farm near Hounslow a few days previously, and had taken leave of
      Katherine. The young maiden had wept when her benefactor communicated to her his intended
      absence from England for some time; but, as he did not acquaint her with the nature of the
      business which took him way from his native country, she was not aware of the perils he was
      about to encounter.  
  He had now to say farewell to the inmates of his own dwelling. But towards Mr. Monroe,
      Ellen, and the faithful Whittingham he was less reserved than he had been to Katherine.  
  Vainly had the old butler implored "Master Richard not to indemnify himself with other
      people's business;"—vainly had Mr. Monroe endeavoured to persuade him to refrain from risking
      his life in the political dissensions of a foreign country; vainly had the beautiful and
      generous-hearted Ellen, with a sisterly warmth, argued on the same side. Richard was
      determined:—they deemed him obstinate—foolish—almost mad; but they knew not of his love for
      Isabella!  
  on which I am about to set out: you will find in my strong-box, of which I leave
      you the key, a sufficient sum of money to answer the expenses of the establishment until
      January. Should I not return by that time, you will find papers in the same place, which will
      instruct you relative to the moneys that will then be due to me from the two respectable
      individuals who are my tenants. Moreover," added Richard,—and here his voice faltered,—"my
      will is in the strong-box; and should I perish in this undertaking, you will find, my dear
      friend,—and you too, my faithful Whittingham,—that I have not left you without resources."  
  "Richard, this is too generous!" exclaimed Mr. Monroe, tears of gratitude trickling down his
      cheeks.  
  Whittingham also wept; and Ellen's sobs were convulsive—for she regarded Richard in the
      light of a dear brother.  
  "Render not our parting moments more painful than they naturally are, my dear friends," said
      Markham. "You cannot understand—but, if I live, you shall some day know—the motives which
      influence me in joining this expedition. Mr. Monroe—Ellen—Whittingham, I have one last request
      to make. You are all aware that on the 10th of July, 1843, a solemn appointment exists between
      my brother and myself. If I should perish in a far-off clime,—or if a prison, or any accident
      prevent my return,—let one of you represent me on that occasion. Should it be so, tell my
      brother how much I have loved him—how anxiously I have ever looked forward to that day,—how
      sincerely I have prayed for his welfare and his success! Tell him," continued Richard, while
      the tears rolled down his cheeks, large and fast,—"tell him that I have cherished his memory
      as no brother ever before was known to do; and if he be poor—or unhappy—or suffering—or
      unfortunate, receive him into this house, which will then be your own—console, comfort him! If
      he be criminal, do not spurn him:—remember, he is my brother!"  
  Ellen sobbed as if her heart would break as Richard uttered these words.  
  There was something fearfully poignant and convulsive in that young lady's grief.  
  But suddenly rousing herself, she rushed from the room; and, returning in a few moments with
      her child, she presented it to Markham, saying "Embrace him, Richard, before you
      depart;—embrace him—for he bears your Christian name!"  
  Our hero received the innocent infant in his arms, and kissed it tenderly.  
  No pen can depict the expression of pleasure—of radiant joy,—joy shining out from amidst her
      tears,—with which Ellen contemplated that proof of affection towards her babe.  
  "Thank you, Richard—thank you, my brother," she exclaimed, as she received back her
      child.  
  The old butler and Mr. Monroe were not callous to the touching nature of that scene.  
  "I have now no more to say," observed Richard. "I am about to retire to the library for a
      short time. At five o'clock the post-chaise will be here. Whittingham, my faithful friend, you
      will see that all my necessaries be carefully packed."  
  Markham then withdrew to his study.  
  There he wrote a few letters upon matters of business.  
  At length Whittingham made his appearance.  
  "Morcar is arrived, Master Richard," said the old man, "and it is close upon five."  
  "I shall soon be ready, Whittingham," answered Richard.  
  The old butler withdrew.  
  Then Richard took from his strong-box the mysterious packet which had been left to him by
      Thomas Armstrong; and that sacred trust he secured about his person.  
  "Now," he said, "I am about to quit the home of my forefathers."  
  And tears trickled down his cheeks.  
  "This is foolish!" he exclaimed, after a pause: "I must not yield to my emotions, when on
      the eve of such a grand and glorious undertaking."  
  He then returned to the drawing-room.  
  At that moment the post-chaise arrived at the front door of the mansion.  
  We will not detail the affecting nature of the farewell scene: suffice it to say that
      Richard departed with the fervent prayers and the sincerest wishes of those whom he left
      behind.  
  Morcar, the gipsy, accompanied him.  
  "Which road, sir?" asked the postillion.  
  "Canterbury—Deal," replied Richard.  
  And the post-chaise whirled him away from the home of his forefathers!  
  By a special messenger, on the same day when the above-mentioned incidents took place, the
      following letter was despatched from London:—  
  
  "  To Her Serene Highness the Grand Duchess of Castelcicala.    
  "I have the honour to inform your Serene Highness that the measures which I adopted (and
       which your Highness condemned in the last letter your Highness deigned to address to me) have
       enabled me to ascertain the intentions of the conspirators. The three vessels purchased by
       them are now completely equipped and manned. One has already arrived in the Downs, where the
       Chiefs of the rebels are to join her. A second sailed from Hull four days ago: and the third
       left Waterford about the same time. They will all three meet at Cadiz, where they are to take
       in stores and water. Twelve hundred exiled Castelcicalans are on board these three ships,
       which are ostensibly fitted out as emigrant vessels for North America. So well have General
       Grachia, Colonel Morosino, and Mr. Markham planned their schemes, that I question whether
       even the English government is acquainted with the real destination of those ships, and the
       object of their crews.  
  "Beware, then, noble lady! The last meeting of the Chiefs of the expedition was held last
       evening; and I was present in my presumed capacity of a stanch adherent to the cause of the
       conspirators. The reasons which I adduced for not proceeding with them on the enterprise, and
       for remaining in London, were completely satisfactory; and no one for a moment suspected my
       integrity. Indeed, the confidence which Mr. Markham has placed in me from the beginning, in
       consequence of the share which I had in saving his life (an incident to which I have alluded
       in preceding letters to your Highness) on a certain occasion, annihilated all suspicion as to
       the sincerity of my motives.  
  "At the meeting of which I have just spoken, it was resolved that the descent upon
       Castelcicala shall be made in the neighbourhood of Ossore, which, I need scarcely inform your
       Serene Highness, is a small sea-port about thirty-five miles to the south of Montoni.  
  "And now I have discharged what I consider to be a faithful duty. If I have fallen in your
       Highness's good opinion by betraying those with whom I affected to act, I fondly hope that
       the importance of the information which I have thereby been enabled to give you, will restore
       me to your Highness's favour.  
  this conspiracy,—remember the earnest supplication which I then made and now
       renew,—that   not a hair of Richard Markham's head must be injured  !  
  "I have the honour to subscribe myself your Serene Highness's most faithful and devoted
       servant,  
   "FILIPPO DORSENNI.   
   Oct. 16th, 1840.   
  
  Thus was it that Mr. Greenwood's Italian valet provided, to the utmost of his power, for the
      safety of Richard Markham, in case those whom he improperly denominated "conspirators" should
      fall into the hands of the Castelcicalan authorities.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXIV.   CASTELCICALA.  
  The Grand-Duchy of Castelcicala is bounded on the north by the Roman States, on the south by
      the kingdom of Naples, on the east by the Apennine Mountains, and on the west by the
      Mediterranean Sea.  
  It is the most beautiful, the best cultivated, and the finest portion of the Italian
      Peninsula. The inhabitants are brave, enlightened, and industrious.  
  Castelcicala is divided into seven districts, or provinces, the capitals of which are
      Montoni (which is also the metropolis of the Grand Duchy), Abrantani, Veronezzi, Pinalla,
      Estella, Terano, and Montecuculi. Each province is governed by a Captain-General (the chief
      military authority), and a Political Prefect, (the chief civil authority).  
  The principal city, Montoni, stands at the mouth of the Ferretti, and contains a hundred
      thousand inhabitants. It is built on both sides of the river, has a fine harbour, spacious
      dockyards, and extensive arsenals, and is one of the principal trading-ports of Italy. It is
      strongly fortified on the system of Vauban.  
  The entire population of the Grand-Duchy of Castelcicala is two millions. Its revenues are
      three millions sterling; and the annual income of the sovereign is two hundred thousand
      pounds.  
  From these details the reader will perceive that Castelcicala is by no means an unimportant
      country in the map of Europe.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  We shall now continue our narrative.  
  It was the middle of November, 1840, and at an early hour in the morning, before sunrise,
      when three vessels (two large brigs and a schooner) ran in as close as the depth of water
      would permit them with safety, on the Castelcicalan coast a few miles below Ossore.  
  The boats of these vessels were immediately lowered; and by the time the sun dawned on the
      scene, nearly twelve hundred armed men were landed without molestation.  
  This force was divided into two columns: one of seven hundred strong was commanded by
      General Grachia; the other of five hundred was led by Colonel Morosino. Richard Markham, as
      Secretary-General of the Constitutional Chiefs, and attended by Morcar, accompanied General
      Grachia. The chiefs and their staff were all provided with horses.  
  and every heart beat high with hope and patriotism.  
  The banners were unfurled; an excellent brass band struck up an enlivening national air; and
      the two columns marched in the direction of Ossore.  
  It was deemed most important to possess this sea-port without delay; as its harbour would
      afford a safe refuge for the three ships to which the Constitutionalists (as the invaders
      termed themselves) could alone look for the means of retreat, in case of the failure of their
      enterprise.  
  But of such a result they entertained not the slightest apprehension.  
  And now the peasants in the farm-houses and hamlets near which they passed, were suddenly
      alarmed by the sounds of martial music: but the rumour of the real object of the invaders
      spread like wild-fire; and they had not marched three or four miles, before they were already
      joined by nearly a hundred volunteer-recruits.  
  The hearts of the Constitutionalists were enlivened by this success; for while the male
      inhabitants of the district through which they passed hastened to join them, the women put up
      audible prayers to heaven to prosper their glorious enterprise.  
  Ossore was in the province of Abrantani, which had for nearly a year groaned under the
      tyranny of the Captain-General, who governed his district by martial law, the jurisdiction of
      the civil tribunals having been superseded by the odious despotism of military courts. The
      Constitutionalists, therefore, entertained the strongest hopes that Ossore would pronounce in
      their favour the moment they appeared beneath its walls.  
  The Constitutionalists were now only three miles from Ossore, which was hidden from their
      view by a high hill, up the acclivity of which the two columns were marching, when the quick
      ear of General Grachia suddenly caught the sound of horses' feet on the opposite side of the
      eminence.  
  Turning to one of his   aides-de-camp  , he said, "Hasten to Colonel
      Morosino—tell him to take that road to the left and possess himself of yonder grove. Our
      landing is known—a body of cavalry is approaching."  
  These words were delivered in a rapid but firm tone. The   aide-de-camp  
      galloped away to execute the order; and General Grachia proceeded to address a few brief but
      impressive words to the patriots of his division, telling them that the moment to strike a
      blow was now at hand.  
  "Markham," said the General, when he had concluded his harangue, "we shall have hot work in
      a few minutes."  
  Scarcely were these words uttered, when a large body of cavalry made its appearance on the
      summit of the hill. A general officer, surrounded by a brilliant staff, was at their head.  
  "That is Count Santa-Croce, the Captain-General of Abrantani!" exclaimed Grachia, drawing
      his sword. "Parley with him were vain—he is devoted to the Grand Duke. My friends, before us
      lies death or victory!"  
  The Constitutionalists gave a deafening cheer in answer to the words of their commander.  
  Then, like an avalanche bursting from its rest on the Alpine height, and rolling with dread
      and deafening din in its precipitate path, the ducal cavalry thundered down the hill.  
  But they were well received; and a terrific contest ensued.  
  The ear was deafened with the report of musketry and the clang of weapons. Bullets whistled
      through the air; and as the serried ranks on either side poured forth volumes of smoke,—the
      Constitutionalists with their muskets, and the cavalry with their carbines,—the shouts of the
      combatants and the groans of the dying announced the desperate nature of the conflict.  
  But, alas! the Constitutionalists were doomed to experience a sad blow!  
  General Grachia,—a patriot whose memory demands our admiration and respect,—was slain at the
      commencement of the battle. He died, fighting gallantly at the head of his troops; and not
      before the enemy had felt the weight of his valiant arm.  
  Almost at the same moment the ensign who bore the Constitutional banner was struck to the
      earth; and an officer of the ducal cavalry seized the standard.  
  But scarcely had he grasped it, when Richard Markham, who had vainly endeavoured to protect
      his chief and friend from the weapons of the enemy, spurred his steed with irresistible fury
      against the officer, hurled him from his seat, and snatched the banner from his grasp.  
  Then, waving the flag above his head with his left hand, and wielding his sword in the
      right, Richard plunged into the thickest of the fight, exclaiming, "Vengeance for the death of
      our general!"  
  The moment that Grachia fell, a sudden panic seized upon the Constitutionalists of his
      division; and they were already retreating, when that gallant exploit on the part of Markham
      rallied them with galvanic effect.  
  "Vengeance for the death of our general!" was the cry; and our hero was instantly backed by
      his faithful Morcar and a whole host of Constitutionalists.  
  The conflict was desperate—both sides fighting as if all idea of quarter were out of the
      question, and victory or death were the only alternatives.  
  Fired by the loss of General Grachia,—conscious of the desperate position in which defeat
      would place the invaders,—and inspired by the image of Isabella, Richard fought with the fury
      of the Destroying Angel.  
  He who had only been looked upon as possessing an able head in administrative matters, now
      suddenly appeared in a new light,—a gallant warrior, who by his bravery had succeeded in
      rallying a panic-struck army.  
  Already were the ducal cavalry retreating;—already had the Captain-General, who surveyed the
      conflict from the summit of the hill, disappeared with his staff-officers on the opposite
      side;—already were the Constitutionalists of Richard's division shouting "Victory,"—when
      Colonel Morosino's corps, which had been engaged by another body of cavalry, was observed to
      be in full retreat—dispersing in disorder—flying before its triumphant foes.  
  The rumour that Colonel Morosino himself was slain, and that a strong body of infantry,
      provided with cannon, was already advancing from the opposite side of the hill, now spread
      like wild-fire through the ranks of Richard's division.  
  Vainly did Markham endeavour by his example to inspire the troops with courage. A panic
      seized upon them: they exclaimed that some villain had betrayed them; and the disorder became
      general.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The ducal cavalry which were so lately in full retreat, rallied again: their charge was
      irresistible; they literally swept the slope of the hill down which they rushed.  
  Backed by a small but gallant band that scorned to retreat, and well seconded by Morcar,
      Richard fought with a desperation which was truly marvellous in one who had never wielded a
      hostile brand until that day. But a pistol-bullet disabled his right arm; and he was taken
      prisoner, together with Morcar and several others.  
  The Constitutionalists were completely defeated; five hundred fell upon the field of battle;
      the remainder were dispersed or captured. But scarcely three hundred succeeded in saving
      themselves by flight.  
  And almost at the same moment when this unfortunate expedition was thus overwhelmed with
      ruin, a Castelcicalan frigate, which had put out from Ossore harbour, shortly after the
      landing of the Constitutionalists, captured the three vessels which were the last hope of
      those patriots who had escaped from captivity or carnage.  
  From the summit of the hill, whither he was conducted into the presence of the
      Captain-General of Abrantani, Richard beheld the three vessels strike their colours to the
      Castelcicalan man-of-war.  
  "Treachery has been at work here," he said within himself; "or else how arose these
      preparations to receive us?"  
  He was not, however, permitted much time for reflection—either in respect to his own
      desperate condition, or that of the unfortunate fugitives whose last hope was thus cut off by
      the seizure of the ships; for the Captain-General—an old man, with white hair, but a stern and
      forbidding countenance,—addressed him in a haughty and savage tone.  
  "Know you the penalty that awaits your crime, young man?" he exclaimed; "for in you I
      doubtless behold one of the chiefs of this monstrous invasion."  
  "I know how to die," answered Richard, fearlessly.  
  perhaps. He is not a Castelcicalan, by the accent with which he speaks our native
      tongue."  
  "I am an Englishman, my lord," said Markham, returning the proud glance of defiance and
      scorn which Count Santa-Croce threw upon him.  
  "An Englishman!" thundered the Captain-General. "Then is a military death too good for you!
      What brings a wretched foreigner like you amongst us with a hostile sword? You have not even
      the miserable subterfuge of patriotism as a palliation for your crime. Away with him! Hang him
      to yonder tree!"  
  "I have one favour to implore of your lordship," said Markham, his voice faltering not,
      although his cheek grew somewhat pale: "I am prepared for death—but let me not perish like a
      dog. Plant your soldiers at a distance of a dozen paces—let them level their muskets at me—and
      I promise you I shall not die a coward."  
  "No—you are a foreigner!" returned the Captain-General ferociously. "Away with him!"  
  Markham was instantly surrounded by soldiers, and dragged to the foot of a tree at a little
      distance.  
  An   aide-de-camp   of the Count was ordered to superintend the sad
      ceremony.  
  "Have you any thing which you desire to be communicated to your friends in your native
      country?" asked the officer, who was a generous-minded young man, and who, having beheld
      Richard's bravery in the conflict, could not help respecting him.  
  "I thank you sincerely for the kindness which prompts this question," replied our hero; "and
      all I have now to hope is that those who know me—in my native land—may not think that
      cowardice or dishonour closed the career of Richard Markham."  
  "Richard Markham!" ejaculated the officer. "Tell me—is that your name?"  
  "It is," answered our hero.  
  "Then there is hope for you   yet  , brave Englishman!" cried the officer; and without
      uttering another word, he hastened back to the spot where the Captain-General of Abrantani was
      standing.  
  Were we to say that Richard was now otherwise than a prey to the most profound suspense, we
      should be exaggerating the moral strength of human nature.  
  We have no wish to make of our hero a demigod: we allow him to be nothing more than mortal
      after all!  
  It   was  , therefore, with no little anxiety that Markham saw the officer approach the
      Captain-General of Abrantani, and discourse with him for some moments in a low tone. The
         aide-de-camp   appeared to urge some point which he was anxious to carry:
      Count Santa-Croce shook his head ominously.  
  "Beloved Isabella," murmured Richard to himself: "shall I never see thee more?"  
  His eyes were still fixed upon those two men who appeared to be arguing his life or
      death.  
  At length the Captain-General took a paper from the breast of his profusely-laced blue
      uniform coat, and cast his eyes over it.  
  Richard watched him with breathless anxiety.  
  This state of suspense did not last long. Count Santa-Croce folded the paper, replaced it
      where he had taken it from, and then gave a brief command to the officer.  
  The latter hurried back to the spot where Markham was hovering as it were between life and
      death.  
  "You are saved, sir!" cried the Castelcicalan his countenance expressing the most unfeigned
      joy.  
  "Generous friend!" exclaimed Richard: "by what strange influence have you worked this
      miracle?"  
  "That must remain a secret," answered the   aide-de-camp  . "At the same time
      I can take but little merit to myself in the transaction—beyond a mere effort of memory. You
      have powerful friends, sir, in Castelcicala: otherwise his lordship the Captain-General," he
      added in a whisper, "was not the man to spare you."  
  "To you I proffer my most heart-felt thanks, generous Italian!" cried Richard; "for to you I
      am clearly indebted for my life. Let me know the name of my saviour?"  
  "Mario Bazzano—junior   aide-de-camp   to Count Santa-Croce, the
      Captain-General of Abrantani," was the answer. "But we have no time to parley," he continued
      rapidly: "the good news which I have already imparted to you in respect to your life, must be
      somewhat counterbalanced by the commands which I have received regarding your liberty."  
  "Speak, Signor Bazzano," said Markham. "You saw that I did not flinch from death: it is
      scarcely probable that I shall tremble at any less severe sentence which may have been passed
      upon me."  
  "My orders are to conduct you to Montoni, where you will be placed at the disposal of a
      higher authority than even the Captain-General of Abrantani," returned the
         aide-de-camp  . "But, in the first place, my lord's surgeon shall look to
      your wound."  
  Then once more did the generous-hearted Castelcicalan hasten away; and in a few minutes he
      returned, accompanied by the Count's own medical attendant.  
  Richard's arm was examined; and it was discovered that a bullet had passed through the
      fleshy part between the elbow and the shoulder. The wound was painful, though by no means
      dangerous; and the surgeon bandaged it with care and skill.  
  "Now, Signor Markham," said Bazzano, "it is my duty to conduct you to Montoni. I do not wish
      to drag you thither like a felon—because you are a brave man: at the same time I am answerable
      to the Count and   to another   who is higher than the Count, for your person. Gallant
      warriors are usually honourable men: pledge me your honour that you will not attempt to
      escape; and we will proceed to Montoni alone together."  
  "I pledge you my honour," answered Richard, "that so long as I am in your custody, I will
      not attempt to escape. But the moment you are released from your charge of my person, my vow
      ceases."  
  "Agreed, signor," said Bazzano.  
  The   aide-de-camp   then ordered his own and another horse (for Richard's
      steed had been sorely wounded in the conflict) to be brought to the spot where this
      conversation took place.  
  aught happen to him, four others would thereby be plunged into the depths of
      misery."  
  "Where is this person to whom you allude?" inquired Bazzano.  
  "He is a prisoner yonder. There—he is seated on the ground, with his face buried in his
      hands!"  
  And Richard pointed in the direction where the poor gipsy was plunged into a painful and
      profound reverie at a little distance.  
  For the third time the   aide-de-camp  ,—who was a tall, active, handsome,
      dark-eyed young man,—hurried away. Count Santa-Croce had mounted his horse and repaired, with
      his staff, to view more closely the spot where the conflict had taken place, and to issue
      orders relative to the interment of the killed and the disposal of the prisoners. Mario
      Bazzano did not therefore dread the eagle glance of his superior, as he hastened to perform
      another generous deed and confer another favour on Richard Markham.  
  "Young man," he said, addressing himself to Morcar, "rise and follow me. You are to
      accompany your master. My good friend," he added, speaking to the sentinel who stood near, "I
      will be answerable for my conduct in this instance to his lordship the Captain-General."  
  The sentinel was satisfied; and Morcar followed the officer to the spot where Richard and
      the Castelcicalan soldiers who had charge of him, were standing.  
  A third horse was procured; and in a few minutes the   aide-de-camp  , our
      hero, and Morcar rode rapidly away from the scene of carnage, towards Ossore.  
  It were a vain task to attempt to describe the joy which succeeded Morcar's grief and
      apprehension, when he discovered that his own and his master's lives were beyond danger, and
      that Mario Bazzano was evidently so well inclined to befriend them.  
  "As I do not wish to keep you in an unpleasant state of suspense, signor," said the
         aide-de-camp   to Richard, "I must inform you that you have little to dread
      at Montoni. You have powerful friends there. A short imprisonment—or some punishment of a
      slight nature, will be all the penalty you will both have to pay for your mad freak—or else I
      am much mistaken. But more I dare not—cannot say."  
  "Whatever be our fate," exclaimed Richard, "my heart will cherish until death the
      remembrance—the grateful remembrance of your noble conduct. But tell me, my generous
      friend—what will become of those unfortunate prisoners?"  
  "The chiefs of the enterprise have fallen in the conflict," answered Mario; "else the fate
      of traitors would have been in store for them. As for the mistaken men whom they have led to
      these shores, imprisonment—a long imprisonment in the citadels of Abrantani, Pinalla, and
      Estella, will doubtless be the penalty of their treason."  
  The severe terms in which the young   aide-de-camp  , who was evidently
      devoted to the Grand Duke's cause, spoke of the Constitutionalists, pierced like a dagger to
      the heart of our hero; but delicacy and gratitude towards one from whom he had received such
      signal obligations, prevented him from making any comment.  
  In a short time the little party reached Ossore, at which town they proceeded to an hotel,
      where they obtained refreshments. There, also, plain clothes were procured for Markham, in
      order that his uniform (which was different from that of the Castelcicalan officer) might not
      create unpleasant notice on his arrival at Montoni. Morcar had no uniform to change.  
  When the repast was terminated, Lieutenant Bazzano ordered a post-chaise and four; and in a
      short time the little party was whirling rapidly along the high road to the capital.  
  During the journey Richard and the   aide-de-camp   rose higher in each
      other's esteem, the more they conversed together; and by the time they reached their
      destination, a sort of friendship, which circumstances had tended to invest with unusual
      interest, already existed between them.  
  Bazzano assured our hero that the contemplated invasion of the Constitutionalists had been
      communicated some time previously to the Captain-General of Abrantani; but whence that
      information had emanated the young officer was unable to state. Preparations had, however,
      been in existence for at least a fortnight to receive the invaders when they set foot on the
      Castelcicalan territory. These assurances confirmed Richard in the opinion which he had
      already formed, that treachery had existed somewhere on the side of the patriots.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXV.   MONTONI.  
  It was nine o'clock at night when the post-chaise entered the capital of Castelcicala.  
  In spite of his unfortunate position,—a prisoner, defeated in his grand aims, and with all
      his hopes apparently blasted,—Richard could not help feeling a glow of pleasure when he thus
      found himself in the sovereign city which was the birth place of his well-beloved
      Isabella.  
  But, oh! in what a state did he now enter its walls!  
  Instead of accompanying a victorious army to proclaim Alberto Grand Duke of
      Castelcicala,—instead of the society of the patriotic Grachia and the heroic Morosino,—instead
      of hearing the welcome voices of a liberated people echoing around,—the young man was in the
      custody of a subaltern, and, for aught he knew, on his way to a dungeon!  
  Then—Grachia, Morosino, and the other chiefs of the enterprise—where were they?  
  Numbered with the dead—or captives in the hands of a savage conqueror!  
  Oh! how were Markham's fondest hopes blasted! how were his elysian dreams dissipated by the
      mocking reality of disaster and defeat!  
  Now, too, how much farther than ever was he removed from the sole object of his toils,—the
      only hope of his existence,—the hand of Isabella!  
  Her father, who had all along discountenanced the projects of the Constitutionalists, but
      who would naturally have pardoned them had they succeeded, could not for a moment be expected
      to forgive the survivors of that terrible defeat!  
  All these gloomy ideas annihilated in a moment the temporary glow of pleasure which our hero
      had experienced on entering Montoni.  
  and entered the most fashionable and imposing quarter of that portion of the city
      which stands on the northern side of the river.  
  At length it stopped at an hotel.  
  "We shall alight here," said Mario Bazzano.  
  "But this is not a prison!" exclaimed Richard.  
  "I never told you that you were on your way to such a place," returned the
         aide-de-camp  , laughing.  
  "Did you not hint at imprisonment, signor?" said our hero, surprised at the kind forbearance
      shown towards him—captured, as he had been, with arms in his hand against the reigning
      Prince.  
  "That may, or may not happen," replied Bazzano. "At all events, here we will alight: and,
      remember, while in my charge, you are on your parole. It is not necessary to let the gossips
      of this tavern know who you are, or why you are here with me."  
  "My honour is pledged, and the vow will be punctually fulfilled," said Markham.  
  They then descended from the vehicle, and were conducted to a private apartment in the
      hotel.  
  Bazzano ordered refreshments: then, as soon as he himself had drunk a glass of wine and
      eaten a mouthful of food, he left the room, simply observing, "I may be absent nearly an hour;
      but I will thank you not to retire to rest until my return."  
  Markham bowed an acquiescence with this request; and, as soon as the door had closed behind
      the   aide-de-camp  , he exclaimed, "If Signor Bazzano be a fair specimen of
      the Castelcicalans generally, they are a glorious race!"  
  "Some kind power seems to protect you in this country, Mr. Markham," observed Morcar.  
  "I candidly confess that I am at a loss to interpret these occurrences," returned our hero.
      "At the moment when the cord is round my neck, the mention of my name saves my life, and
      converts an enemy into a stanch friend. Even the ferocious Captain-General of Abrantani
      relaxes all his natural severity in my behalf. Then, instead of being chained, I am scarcely
      guarded: instead of being placed between two soldiers with loaded muskets, I am allowed to
      remain upon parole. He who has charge of me, leaves me for an hour, with a simple request not
      to retire to rest until his return! Yes—some secret power protects me. It is true that a few
      years ago I once met her who now occupies a seat on the Grand-ducal throne," he continued,
      rather musing to himself, than addressing his words to Morcar; "but she can scarcely
      remember—or, even if she do—could not be supposed to interest herself in one so obscure, so
      humble as I!"  
  Then he paced the room—lost in conjecture, and giving way to the immense variety of
      reflections which his position was calculated to engender.  
  In an hour the young   aide-de-camp   returned.  
  "Signor Markham," he said, "you will have the kindness to accompany me whither I shall
      conduct you. You," he added, addressing himself to Morcar, "must await our return here."  
  Richard signified his readiness to follow Bazzano; and they left the hotel together.  
  It was now past eleven o'clock; and, though the shops were all closed, the streets of
      Montoni were resplendent with the lustre which streamed from the windows of the
         cafés  ,   restaurants  , and club-houses.  
  Markham could not help observing to his companion that there appeared to be numerous patrols
      of military moving about in the capital, and that the sentinels were posted along the streets
      at very short intervals.  
  "The news of this morning's invasion reached Montoni several hours ago," answered the
         aide-de-camp  ; "and I do not disguise from you the fact that until this
      strong military demonstration was made, the city was in an extraordinary ferment. This I heard
      just now, previous to my return to the hotel."  
  "The reigning Grand Duke seems very unpopular," observed Markham.  
  Bazzano made no reply: it was evident that he could not contradict the assertion; and, being
      in his sovereign's service, he could not with propriety corroborate it.  
  A quarter of an hour's rapid walking brought our hero and the young officer to an immense
      square; and the magnificent buildings on two sides thereof shed a brilliant light from their
      ample casements.  
  "This is the ducal palace," said Mario.  
  Crossing the square, the officer led the way towards a small door in one of the angles of
      the immense edifice.  
  Mario knocked gently; and the door was immediately opened by a tall servant in a gorgeous
      livery.  
  Markham followed his companion into a small vestibule, brilliantly lighted, and at the end
      of which was a narrow staircase carpetted all over.  
  Not a word was spoken: the domestic bowed as the two young men passed him; and Bazzano led
      the way up the staircase, which was lighted by lamps held in the hands of marble statues
      placed in recesses.  
  On the landing which the visitors speedily reached, an usher, dressed in black, and wearing
      a massive gold chain, advanced to receive them; and, opening a door, conducted them into an
      ante-room, where he requested them to be seated.  
  He then opened another door on the opposite side from which they had entered the room, and
      disappeared for a few minutes.  
  On his return, he desired Markham to follow him.  
  Our hero obeyed, and was led through several magnificent apartments, all brilliantly
      lighted, but unoccupied at the moment.  
  At length the usher paused in a room smaller, but more elegantly furnished, than any of the
      preceding ones; and, having requested our hero to take a seat, he retired by the same door by
      which they had entered that room.  
  For a few minutes Richard remained alone with his reflections.  
  He was now in the Castelcicalan palace. But wherefore had he been brought thither? Was it to
      undergo an examination before the Grand Duke, relative to the invasion of the morning? was it
      to be overwhelmed with reproaches by that sovereign against whom, and without provocation, he
      had borne arms? Could treachery be meditated? No—that idea was absurd. He was so completely in
      the power of the Grand Duke, that there had been no need to exercise treachery towards him, if
      punishment were intended.  
  it be possible that she would interest herself in him?  
  He was in the midst of his reverie, when a door opposite to where he was sitting, suddenly
      opened; and a lady, elegantly attired, with a tiara of diamonds upon her brow, entered the
      apartment.  
  One glance was sufficient for Richard Markham!  
  He immediately recognised the beautiful woman whom he had seen five years previously,
      disguised in male attire, at Mrs. Arlington's lodgings, and whose singular history had
      subsequently reached his ears when he was imprisoned at the same time as herself, though of
      course not in the same department, in Newgate.  
  Yes—he recognised   her   who was once Eliza Sidney; and he now bent his head to the
      grand Duchess of Castelcicala.  
  Although somewhat pale, and showing a slightly deeper shade of that melancholy expression
      which her countenance had acquired during her captivity of two years, Eliza was still
      eminently lovely.  
  Her form had expanded into those proportions which indicated the maturity of her charms, but
      which gave to her beauty a voluptuousness that was only attempered by the chaste glances of
      her melting hazel eyes, and the halo of purity which dwelt on her lofty and spotless brow.  
  And well fitted was that pure and open forehead to be crowned with the glittering tiara
      which denoted her sovereign rank, and which set off to such exquisite advantage the large
      bands of her light, luxuriant, shining, chesnut hair!  
  Her walk was a dignified and yet harmonious motion;—her gesture expressed no particle of
      hauteur, but still denoted a consciousness of the respect which she felt to be due to her
      position as a Princess, and to her character as a woman.  
  "Resume your seat, Mr. Markham," she said in a sweet tone, and with a manner full of grace:
      then, placing herself on a sofa at a short distance, she added, "I have had the pleasure of
      seeing you before; but little did I   then   suppose that the next time we met, it would
      be under such circumstances as these."  
  "I comprehend your Serene Highness," answered Markham, firmly, but respectfully. "We
      meet—your Highness as a sovereign Princess, and I as a prisoner at the disposal of those who
      have power to command in this State."  
  "Such is indeed the fact, Mr. Markham," returned the Grand Duchess, with a half smile. "But
      I did not send for you hither to reproach you. Doubtless you considered yourself justified in
      the proceedings which you have adopted, and in joining the cause of those mistaken men who
      this morning set hostile feet upon these shores;—for I have received from an agent of mine in
      England assurances of your honourable nature and estimable character; and I did not fail some
      time since to issue those secret instructions to the various authorities, which saved your
      life this morning, and ensured you good treatment at the hands of those into whose power you
      were doomed to fall. Moreover, I learn that you behaved most gallantly in the conflict between
      your party and the ducal troops; and I can respect bravery, Mr. Markham, even in an
      enemy."  
  "Your Serene Highness will give me credit for the sincerity with which I express my
      gratitude for the kindness that I have received at your hands," said Markham; "especially
      under circumstances, which—whatever opinion I may entertain of them—could not have served me
      as a very favourable passport to the notice of your Highness."  
  "Mr. Markham," returned the Grand Duchess, "you are an Englishman—and that is one reason to
      induce me to exercise some leniency in your case; for however profoundly my interests may be
      identified with this country, it is impossible that I can forget my own. Secondly, I am better
      acquainted with your history than you imagine. Do you remember an anonymous letter which your
      late father received—some years ago,—yes—it was in 1831, I believe,—warning him of a
      burglarious attempt which was contemplated in respect to his abode?"  
  "I remember well the letter to which your Highness alludes," answered Markham, surprised at
      this mention of an incident which had occurred only a short time previously to the separation
      of himself and his brother on the hill-top.  
  "That letter was written by myself," said the Grand Duchess, with a smile.  
  "Written by your Highness!" ejaculated Markham, more and more amazed at what he heard.  
  "Yes, Mr. Markham," continued Eliza: "it was I who sent that warning. Circumstances enabled
      me to overhear the discourse of two miscreants in whose den I accidentally took refuge during
      a storm, and whence I narrowly escaped with my life. But enough of that: I merely mentioned
      the circumstance to show you that your name has long been familiar to me. Then, about four
      years after that event, I met you at the abode of a lady from whom I have since received
      signal kindnesses, and who is now the Countess of Warrington."  
  "I remember that evening well, your Highness," observed Richard.  
  "Afterwards," resumed the Grand Duchess, sinking her voice, "you and I were the inmates of a
      tenement whose severity you deserved perhaps much less than I—though heaven knows the artifice
      that was used to involve me in that desperate venture!"  
  "Your Serene Highness has heard, then, that I too was innocent of the crime laid to my
      charge?" said Markham.  
  "I imagined so when I first learnt the particulars of your case at the time of its
      occurrence," answered the Grand Duchess; "and my agent in England has lately confirmed me in
      that belief. Then, again," she added, with an arch smile, "I am not ignorant of the motives
      which induced you to embark, like a gallant cavalier, in the enterprise whose results have led
      to this interview."  
  "Your Serene Highness will not wrong, by injurious suspicions, an exiled family!" said
      Markham, well knowing to what Eliza alluded.  
  "No!" exclaimed the Grand Duchess, solemnly: "I am aware that Prince Alberto did not
      countenance the expedition; and I can scarcely believe that his charming daughter," she
      continued, archly smiling again, "could have been very ready to permit you to embark on so mad
      an enterprise. You see, Mr. Markham, that I am acquainted with more than you would have
      supposed me to know. And now, perhaps, you will be surprised, when I assure you that I
      entertain the most profound respect and esteem for Prince Alberto and his family—although I
      have never seen them. But, oh!" exclaimed Eliza, wiping away a tear, "how great was my grief
      when I learnt, this afternoon, that my friend General Grachia had fallen in the conflict of
      the morning!"  
  "General Grachia invariably spoke to me in the most pleasing terms of your Serene
      Highness," observed Richard.  
  "Do not think, Mr. Markham," said the Grand Duchess, after a pause, during which she seemed
      a prey to deep thought,—"do not think that I have been a party to all the instances of
      severity and sentences of exile which have lately characterised the political history of
      Castelcicala. No, Mr. Markham—I would not have you think unworthily of your
      fellow-countrywoman. But, enough of that! You can well imagine that I am not all-powerful
      here:—otherwise," she added, with a sigh, "it would be different! Time is, however, pressing;
      and I have not yet spoken to you on the matter which ought to form the principal topic of our
      conversation;—I mean your own position. You have heard enough from my lips to show you that
      you are not unknown to me, and that there are consequently reasons which have induced me to
      interest myself in your behalf. But, as I ere now observed, my power is not unlimited; and
      although my secret wishes are commands in the eyes of Count Santa-Croce and his officers,
      still my influence is not sufficient to protect you from the vengeance of the Grand Duke, did
      he know that   one   of the invaders was at large and unpunished in his dominions. It is
      true that I can soften his rigour—as I shall do in respect to those unhappy prisoners——"  
  "God be thanked that their condition excites the compassion of your Serene Highness!"
      exclaimed Markham fervently. "A weight is removed from my mind by this assurance!"  
  "Rest satisfied on that head," said Eliza. "I can promise you that imprisonment is the worst
      punishment which shall overtake any of them."  
  When Eliza had first entered the room, Richard had bowed his head low to the Grand Duchess;
      but now he sank on his bended knee in presence of the humane and tender-hearted woman.  
  Eliza felt the full force of this expression of feeling:—it rewarded her for her
      goodness!  
  She extended her hand towards him; and he respectfully touched it with his lips.  
  Then he rose, and resumed his seat.  
  Oh! at that moment, how sweet—how sweet to the amiable and noble-minded woman,—noble in
      nature, as well as in name,—was the possession of power;—and how amply recompensed was she for
      its humane use, by that spontaneous tribute of respect which she had just received from her
      fellow-countryman!  
  "Mr. Markham," she said, after a pause, "you must escape from Castelcicala: but that is not
      so easy a matter as you may haply imagine. The Castelcicalan steam-frigates will rigorously
      guard the coast by sea, and the custom-house officers by land; and not a ship will leave one
      of our ports without being searched. Orders to that effect have already been issued by the
      Minister of Marine; and I dare not interfere to prevent their full operation. Are you bold
      enough to strike far into the country, traverse its length, and obtain refuge in the
      Neapolitan kingdom?"  
  "And wherefore not in the Roman States, my lady?" asked Richard. "Their frontier is but a
      day's distance from Montoni."  
  "Because the Grand Duke has concluded a league, offensive and defensive, with the Pope; and
      you would assuredly be detected in the dominions of his Holiness, and sent ignominiously back
      to Montoni—in which case, Mr. Markham, I could not save you."  
  "And what chance of safety do I possess by following the plan suggested by your Serene
      Highness?"  
  "Every chance," was the decided reply. "In the first place, Signor Mario Bazzano will
      procure for you a passport: his uncle is Under-Secretary for the Interior. This passport, made
      out for you in a fictitious name, will be dated from Montoni; and the various authorities will
      never suspect that one of the invaders could possibly have obtained such a document from the
      capital itself. Secondly, you can purchase a portfolio with drawing materials, and pass
      yourself off for an English artist, sent to Castelcicala to design some of the most striking
      features of Italian scenery. By these means there will be an ostensible reason for avoiding
      the great cities and towns; and no suspicion will be excited by your keeping as much as
      possible to the open country. Does my plan please you?"  
  "How can I ever sufficiently express my gratitude to your Serene Highness for all this kind
      consideration—this unlooked-for generosity?" cried Markham.  
  "By abstaining from plans of invasion or insurrection in future," answered Eliza.  
  "Ah! how can I pledge myself to such a condition?" exclaimed Richard. "Should circumstances
      induce or compel Prince Alberto to strike a blow——"  
  "I fully comprehend you," interrupted the Grand Duchess. "In that case, I impose no
      conditions whatsoever upon you. Go, Mr. Markham—adopt the plan which I have suggested—and you
      will soon be beyond the reach of danger. And excuse me," she added, after a moment's pause,
      "if I act as your banker, as well as your adviser. Use this purse; and, on your arrival in
      England, you can liquidate the debt by affording succour to any needy Castelcicalan whom
      chance may throw in your way."  
  "Before I receive this new proof of your goodness—before I take my leave,—your Serene
      Highness must permit me, on my bended knee,"—and our hero sank to that posture as he
      spoke,—"to declare that, while I shall henceforth consider myself indebted to your Highness in
      an obligation which I can never repay,—while I shall ever hold myself ready to serve your
      Highness by day and night, and to dare every earthly danger in so doing—in order to evince my
      gratitude for all that your Highness has this day done for me,—still I would rather be
      delivered up to the hands of justice,—I would rather die on the scaffold to-morrow, or take my
      stand in front of a platoon,—than renounce—Englishman—foreigner though I be—the cause of
      Castelcicalan liberty!"  
  "Rise, headstrong—foolish young man," exclaimed the Grand Duchess, smiling. "I seek to
      impose no conditions upon you. Go; and when once you are beyond the Castelcicalan territory,
      use your own free will—let no shackle of any kind curb the ardour of your soul. At the same
      time, beware! On another occasion, I may seek to protect you in vain!"  
  "Never—never again, your Highness, will I wantonly aid in provoking civil strife in
      Castelcicala!" ejaculated Richard. "Two motives shall alone henceforth be powerful enough to
      induce me to unsheath the hostile weapon in this clime."  
  "And which are they?" asked Eliza, still half smiling as she spoke.  
  "In obedience to the command of Prince Alberto—and then only if   his   cause be just;
      or in order to relieve Castelcicala from some foreign invader."  
  "And may God grant that neither of those alternatives shall ever occur!" said the Grand
      Duchess. "But our interview has already lasted a long time; and delay is dangerous to
      you."  
  Eliza once more extended her hand towards our hero, who pressed it respectfully, but with
      fervour, to his lips.  
  He then withdrew.  
  In the adjoining apartment he found the usher waiting for him.  
  They retraced their steps to the ante-room, where Signor Mario Bazzano was seated, expecting
      their return.  
  In a few minutes our hero and the young   aide-de-camp   were on their way
      back to the hotel.  
  During the walk, Bazzano said, "I presume you have assented to the plan which her Highness
      has devised for your safe retreat into the Neapolitan territory?"  
  Markham replied in the affirmative.  
  "In that case I will procure passports for yourself and attendant, to-morrow morning,"
      observed the young officer. "But, for the present, we all three stand in need of rest."  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXVI.   THE CLUB-HOUSE.  
  We must now transport our readers back to London.  
  At about the same time when the events of the two preceding chapters occurred in
      Castelcicala, others of a scarcely less interesting nature took place in the great metropolis
      of England.  
  It was about three o'clock in the afternoon of one of those dark, misty, dispiriting
      November days, when the sun is scarcely visible, and sinks early to rest, that half-a-dozen
      fashionable gentlemen were lounging in the bay-window of a Club-House in St. James's
      Street.  
  They were all dressed in the first style: gold chains festooned over waistcoats of the most
      recent Parisian fashion; and brilliantly polished boots, without a speck of mud upon them,
      showed that their owners had not arrived at the Club on foot.  
  "What news in the political world, Greenwood?" asked the Marquis of Holmesford.  
  "Nothing particular," answered the gentleman appealed to. "Our party is sure to drive the
      Whigs out next year; and then I shall show the independent and enlightened freemen of
      Rottenborough that they will acquire some honour through the medium of their
      representative."  
  "I suppose you will do a little good for yourself—eh, Greenwood?" asked the Honourable
      Augustus Smicksmack—a lieutenant in the Grenadier Guards, and just turned nineteen: "a
      baronetcy—eh, Greenwood? for that's the rumour, I believe?"  
  "Well, I   do   hope that Fame for once is not far wrong, my dear fellow," answered Mr.
      Greenwood.  
  "And I must beg of you to support my friend the Honourable Gively Starkeley's new Game Bill,
      which he intends to introduce next session," observed Lord Dunstable—a major in a crack
      regiment, and whose age was probably one-and-thirty.  
  "A new Game Bill!" ejaculated Mr. Greenwood, horror depicted on his countenance. "Surely
      your friend Starkeley cannot mean to relax the penalties which now exist in respect to
      poaching?"  
  "Quite the reverse," answered Lord Dunstable. "He thinks—as I think—that the present statute
      is not stringent enough; and he has drawn up a bill—at least, Rumrigg the barrister did for
      him—making it transportation for life to shoot game without a license, and transportation for
      fifteen years for looking at a bird or a hare with an unlawful purpose."  
  "  That Bill   will receive my most unqualified support, Dunstable," said Mr.
      Greenwood. "In fact, the laws cannot be too stringent against poachers."  
  "Certainly not," observed Colonel Cholmondeley, a gentleman of about three-and-thirty who
      was one of the group in the Club-House window. "For my part, I consider a murderer or a
      highwayman to be an estimable character in comparison with a poacher."  
  "Decidedly so," exclaimed Lord Dunstable. "A murderer kills his victim—a highwayman robs a
      person; and the thing is done. The individuals murdered or plundered alone suffer. But a
      poacher deprives hundreds of noblemen and gentlemen of their legitimate sport: he preys upon
      the aristocracy, as it were;—and, by God! I'll defend the privileges of the aristocracy with
      my life!"  
  "Oh! certainly—certainly," muttered the Marquis of Holmesford, who, in consequence of
      swollen gums, had been compelled to lay aside his false teeth for a few days, and was
      therefore somewhat incomprehensible in his speech. "Always defend the aristocracy!   The
       millions  , as they call themselves, are ever ready to assail us: they're jealous of us,
      you see—because we have carriages and horses, and they have not."  
  "And for many other reasons," observed Mr. Greenwood. "But I always know how to serve the
      scurvy riff-raff. Why, it was but the other day that some thirty or forty of the independent
      and intelligent electors of Rottenborough assembled together at the   Blue Lion   in
      their town, to address a remonstrance to me on my parliamentary conduct, and call upon me to
      resign."  
  "And what did you do?" asked Lord Dunstable.  
  "Oh! I knew my men well enough: it was not the first time they had taken this step,"
      continued Greenwood. "My agent down there wrote me up an account of their intentions; and I
      sent him instructions how to act. The malcontents met; there was a great deal of speechifying;
      and the tide flowed strong against my interests. The chairman was about to put to the vote a
      Resolution condemnatory of my conduct, when the landlord entered, and addressed the meeting in
      this manner:—'Gentlemen, Mr. Greenwood, having heard that it was your intention to assemble
      here this evening, has conveyed to me his commands to serve up a little supper—poultry,
      turtle, venison, and other trifles of the same kind, together with as much port and sherry as
      you can drink. The supper is now ready, gentlemen: you had better partake of it first, and
      continue your deliberations afterwards.'"  
  "Capital—excellent!" exclaimed Lord Dunstable.  
  "Glowiouth—thuperfine—bwilliant!" cried Sir Cherry Bounce, who was one of the group.  
  "Strike me—but it was uncommon good!" observed Major Dapper, who was also
      present.  
  "Well—what followed?" demanded Colonel Cholmondeley.  
  "Yes, do tell us," said Mr. Smicksmack.  
  "Oh! the result was simple enough," continued Greenwood. "The free and independent electors
      of Rottenborough adjourned to the supper-room, gorged and drank till their senses were
      completely obfuscated, and then passed a vote of confidence in their Member, one gentleman
      alone not holding up his hand in its favour."  
  "What was the reason of that?" inquired the Marquis of Holmesford.  
  "Simply because he was dead drunk under the table," answered Greenwood. "And then this
      fellow had the impudence to write a letter next day to all the newspapers to say   that he
       alone had remained dissentient upon principle  !"  
  "Pwepothterouth!" loudly exclaimed Sir Cherry Bounce.  
  "Hold your tongue, Cherry," said Major Smilax Dapper. "You're a——"  
  "A what, Thmilackth?" asked the youthful baronet.  
  "A bore—strike me!" replied the major.  
  There was a general laugh at the expense of Sir Cherry Bounce, who coloured up to the very
      roots of his hair.  
  "What's become of Harborough, does any one know?" said Lord Dunstable, when the cachinnation
      was concluded.  
  "Gone into the country with his friend Chichester, I believe," replied Greenwood.
      "Harborough and I have not spoken for a long time; but I heard of him a little while ago."  
  "A dreadful thing that was about his wife," observed the Honourable Augustus Smicksmack.  
  "I don't think Harborough cared much about it," returned Greenwood. "They had long led a
      cat-and-dog kind of a life. The moment Lady Cecilia's suicide reached the ears of Sir Rupert,
      who was in France at the time, he came over to England, and sold the few things which had
      belonged to his wife—her trinkets, I mean; for the house in Tavistock Square was a
      ready-furnished one."  
  "And   that   he gave up, I believe?" said Dunstable.  
  "Or rather the landlord took it away from him," answered Greenwood. "That intimacy with
      Reginald Tracy was a bad business for Lady Cecilia," he continued. "But I had my suspicions of
         him   before the exposure took place. The fact is, I saw him at a masquerade ball one
      night, at Drury Lane theatre."  
  "At a masquerade?" ejaculated Lord Dunstable.  
  "Yes. I was dressed as a Greek brigand, and he was attired as a monk."  
  "The sanctified scoundrel!" said Colonel Cholmondeley, in a tone of deep indignation. "What
      dishonour he brought upon the cloth! You know my brother the Archdeacon? Well, he's as jovial
      a fellow as you could wish to meet. Keeps his three mistresses, his horses and hounds, and
      goes to bed mellow every night of his life. But   he   does things discreetly."  
  "In a proper manner, to be sure," muttered the Marquis of Holmesford. "But, by the by,
      Greenwood, you once admired my beautiful Georgian."  
  "And I often think of her now, my lord," returned the Member of Parliament.  
  "I'll make you a proposal, if you like," continued the Marquis, grinning like an antiquated
      goat. "I have taken quite a fancy to your bay mare   Cleopatra  ."  
  "Yes—'tis a beautiful bit of horse-flesh," remarked Greenwood.  
  "Well—my Georgian for your bay mare?" said the Marquis. "Is it a bargain?"  
  "A decided bargain," replied Greenwood.  
  "But how do you know that the lady will submit to the exchange?" asked Smicksmack, with a
      smile.  
  "I feel convinced that she will offer no objection," answered Greenwood. "It is true that
      every slave becomes free when once the foot touches the soil of this country, as I once
      observed to the independent electors of Rottenborough;—but I am sure that she will wear the
      gold chain that I shall be delighted to throw around her."  
  "Well spoken, Greenwood!" cried the Marquis. "Send the bay to my stables in the morning; and
      fetch away the Georgian when you choose."  
  "Greenwood's the man for business," observed Lord Dunstable. "By the by, how did the African
      Railroad scheme turn out?"  
  "Oh! admirably," replied the capitalist. "I cleared my ten thousand by it: so did the
      Marquis."  
  "But I lotht thwee thouthand, though—and a pwethiouth wage I wath in," said Sir Cherry.  
  "Because you kept your shares too long, my dear fellow," remarked Greenwood coolly. "No, my
      good woman—I have nothing for you!"  
  These last words were uttered, in a loud tone, and accompanied by a stern shake of the head,
      to a poor, ragged, shivering creature, who had paused on the pavement outside to solicit alms
      from the aristocrats assembled at the window.  
  The miserable woman cast one glance of ineffable anguish on Mr. Greenwood, and then hurried
      away, overwhelmed by the savage determination of his refusal.  
  "That poor wretch has been good-looking in her time," said Mr. Smicksmack. "Although it is
      nearly dark, I caught sight of her countenance by the light of the lamp."  
  "And so did I," whispered Lord Dunstable to Colonel Cholmondeley, whom he drew aside. "Do
      you know who that was?" he asked in a low and somewhat hoarse tone.  
  "No: how the devil should I?" said the Captain, also sinking his voice—but simply because
      Dunstable did so.  
  "If that poor mendicant were not Lydia Hutchinson," returned the young nobleman, "I never
      was more mistaken in my life. But, my God! how altered!"  
  And for a few moments his countenance became inexpressibly sad.  
  "What nonsense to give way to feelings of that kind!" whispered Cholmondeley.  
  "But she was once so beautiful!" said Dunstable. "Do you remember the first time we ever met
      her—in Hyde Park——"  
  all going to dine together presently: and if you wear that kill-joy countenance,
      I shall wish you at the devil."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Then the Captain drew the young nobleman back to the group in the window; and in a few
      minutes the sprightly nature of the conversation banished from Dunstable's mind the unpleasant
      reminiscences which had been temporarily excited by the sudden appearance of one whom he knew
      so well!  
  In the meantime that miserable female pursued her way down St. James's Street.  
  The weather was cold—dreadfully cold: the streets were damp—and she had neither shoes nor
      stockings!  
  An old cotton gown, a wretched rag of a shawl, and a broken straw bonnet, constituted her
      sole attire.  
  Not an article of clothing had she more than those enumerated.  
  She had parted with her under garments to obtain the means of subsistence; not even a
      petticoat had she beneath that thin cotton gown!  
  When she stopped for a moment to implore alms at the Club-window, it was the first time she
      had ever begged. She had not recognised   him   who had recognised her: but the stern
      countenance of Greenwood, as he refused her a single penny from his immense wealth, had struck
      her with despair.  
  If the rich would not assist her, how could she hope for succour from the poor?  
  She hurried down the street, weak and weary as she was;—but she hurried, with a sort of
      shuffling pace, because she was cold, and her feet were so benumbed that she could not feel
      that she had any!  
  She passed many a brilliantly lighted shop,—many a superb Club,—many a magnificent hotel,
      from the underground windows of which emanated the savoury steam of delicious viands:—she
      beheld cheerful fires, roaring up the chimneys of the kitchens whence those odours came;—but
      she was starving, shivering, dying, all the same!  
  A carriage, with arms emblazoned on the panels, and with horses whose beauty and
      appointments attracted the gaze of the passengers, was standing opposite to a splendid
      shawl-warehouse.  
  footman, carrying a gold-headed cane in his hand, pushed her rudely back,
      exclaiming, "Don't you see that you're in the way?"  
  The shivering woman cast a timid look around, and beheld an elderly gentleman handing a
      lady, much younger than himself, to the carriage above mentioned.  
  The blaze of light from the shop window illuminated that portion of the street; and as the
      elegantly-dressed lady turned her countenance towards her companion, to answer some
      observation which he made to her, the mendicant caught a full view of her beautiful
      features.  
  A scream escaped from the beggar's lips: then, in the next moment, she rushed towards the
      door of the carriage, which the gentleman and lady were just entering.  
  "Miss Enfield—Adeline!" she exclaimed.  
  "What do you want, my good woman?" cried the voice of the nobleman—for such indeed he
      was.  
  "Miss Enfield—I—I am starving!" answered the beggar, clinging to the door.  
  "Do you know her, my dear?" asked the nobleman.  
  "I—I think she was once a teacher at the school, where——" faltered the beautiful lady,
      evidently by no means pleased at the recognition.  
  "Oh! a teacher!" cried the nobleman. "Ah! it is easy to see what she has come to:"—and he
      drew up the carriage window violently.  
  That was a signal for the coachman to whip his horses: the fiery animals sprang forward—the
      carriage moved off with a species of jerk—the poor starving, shivering creature was thrown
      upon the kerb-stone—and there she lay insensible.  
  In a moment she was surrounded by a crowd, that formed a circle about her, and stood gazing
      on the prostrate, motionless form as if the spectacle were very interesting, but by no means
      calculated to awaken compassionate sympathy.  
  Then a huge policeman elbowed his way through the crowd, crying "Move on here!" in a very
      savage tone, and crushing divers bonnets, besides upsetting sundry small boys in his
      endeavours to force a passage.  
  But at the same moment that he reached the spot where the poor creature was lying, a lady,
      about six-and-twenty years of age, and well though by no means showily dressed, pressed
      through the crowd, and immediately bestowed her attention on the mendicant female.  
  The lady raised the unfortunate being's head; and then, by the light of the lamp, it was
      discovered that she had received a wound on the temple, from which the blood was flowing
      freely.  
  "She must be conveyed to the hospital, if she's got any broken bones," said the policeman;
      "and to the workus if she hasn't."  
  "She shall go to neither," observed the lady firmly: "I will take care of her until she is
      recovered."  
  "What—do you know her, mum?" demanded the policeman.  
  "No—I never saw her before in my life, to my knowledge," answered the lady. "But I cannot
      help feeling for a fellow-creature—especially one of my own sex—in such a position."  
  A murmur of approbation arose amongst the crowd.  
  "Will you help me to convey the poor creature to the neighbouring surgeon's?" continued the
      lady, addressing herself to the officer. "See—she opens her eyes—she moves—but, my God! how
      wan, how thin, how cold she is!"  
  The wretched woman was removed to the adjacent establishment of a medical practitioner; and
      in a short time the benevolent lady had the satisfaction of ascertaining that the wound on the
      poor creature's forehead was the only injury which she had sustained by the fall.  
  "She is more in need of sustenance, madam, than medicine," said the surgeon, when he had
      bandaged the wound. "I will give her a glass of wine and a morsel of light food."  
  This humane proposal was immediately carried into effect;—the starving creature would have
      eaten ravenously; but the surgeon prudently checked her;—and in a short time she was
      considerably revived.  
  She appeared to be about seven or eight and twenty years of age; and possessed the remains
      of great personal attractions. But her dark eyes were sunken, and their lustre was dimmed with
      privation: her cheeks were hollow; and her form was little more than mere skin and bone.  
  The lady did not ask her if she had any friends, or any home. Such a question would have
      been a superfluous mockery of one whose appearance was sufficient to convey the sad tale of
      utter destitution and hopelessness.  
  "You shall come with me, my poor creature," whispered the lady, in a kind tone. "I know not
      who nor what you are; but I am touched to the very heart by your sorrowful condition."  
  "Ah! madam, if you knew all—" began the woman, bursting into tears; "if you knew——"  
  "I wish to know nothing now," interrupted the lady. "It is sufficient for me that you are in
      distress."  
  The surgeon's boy was despatched for a hackney-coach, into which the invalid was conveyed.
      The lady then entered it, and directed the driver to take them to her residence, which was in
      Cannon Street, City.  
  "I have known sorrow myself," said the lady, as they proceeded thither; "and, although,
      thank God! I have never experienced the stings of poverty, I have nevertheless been forced to
      endure afflictions almost as poignant."  
  "Ah! madam," returned the poor woman, "such a heart as yours never ought to be tutored in
      the ways of unhappiness. But, as you observe, there are other afflictions which may compare
      with the stings of want!"  
  And the unhappy creature wept bitterly.  
  The lady endeavoured to console her to the best of her ability; and even in the short
      conversation which passed between them during the ride from the West End to the City, the
      invalid gave proofs of a superior understanding and cultivated mind.  
  At length they reached Cannon Street, and stopped at a house, the lower portion of which was
      a stationer's shop. The lady occupied apartments on the first floor.  
  "Oh! Mrs. Chichester, how long you have been absent!" exclaimed the mistress of the house,
      who opened the door. "I really began to be alarmed—"  
  wife of Mr. Chichester. "I have brought home a poor creature, whom I found
      insensible—dying—in the streets; and I request you to provide a room for her."  
  "Ah! my dear lady, what an excellent disposition you possess!" exclaimed the mistress of the
      house.  
  Then she bustled about to help the invalid up stairs; and the poor creature speedily
      experienced a feeling akin to happiness, when cheered by a comfortable fire and a good
      meal.  
  Mrs. Chichester also supplied her with warm clothes; and a night's rest made her an altered
      being.  
  On the following day she was enabled to narrate her history, which she did in the ensuing
      manner.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXVII.   THE HISTORY OF AN UNFORTUNATE WOMAN.  
  "My name is Lydia Hutchinson. My father was the curate of a small village near Guildford;
      and fortune had frowned upon him with such continuous rancour from the moment he left the
      University where he graduated, that it was somewhat late in life ere he ventured to think of
      matrimony. After filling several different curacies, from which he was invariably removed at
      the deaths of the old incumbents and the arrival of the new ones, he seemed at length to
      settle down in the little village to which I have alluded. There he fell in love with the
      daughter of a half-pay officer as poor as himself; and, with only eighty pounds a year to
      depend upon, he embarked in the voyage of matrimony. A year after this union, a son was born,
      and christened by the name of Edgar: an interval of eighteen months elapsed, and I was ushered
      into the world. But my mother died in giving birth to me.  
  "To say that my brother and myself were the only consolation which my poor father now
      possessed, were merely to tell the common tale of parental love in the widowed breast. We were
      indeed his only consolation! Often and often has he told us this, when we were old enough to
      comprehend his meaning, and appreciate the full value of his kindness. He was an excellent
      man. In order to let his children be respectably dressed and maintain a decent
      appearance—especially at church on Sundays—he stinted himself of almost the common necessaries
      of life. He undertook my brother's education himself; and from his lips I also learnt the
      rudiments of the knowledge which I possess. There was resident in the village, a widow lady of
      great accomplishments, but reduced circumstances; and out of his pittance my father even
      contrived to spare something to procure her services in giving me lessons in music, drawing,
      embroidery, and French. Under her tuition I progressed rapidly in those branches; and, when I
      was sixteen, I was considered to be better educated than if I had been brought up at a
      boarding-school.  
  "Since I have mentioned that age, I will not weary you with any farther details concerning
      the earlier portion of my life. My brother Edgar had already obtained a situation as an usher
      in a school at Guildford, and my father, though loth to part with us both, was well aware of
      the necessity of placing us in positions which would, he hoped, enable us to earn our own
      bread. For of course his small income would cease at his death; and it had been impossible for
      him to save a single penny. He, however, anticipated that, when we were both provided for, he
      should be able to lay aside a few pounds during the remaining years of his life, so as not to
      leave his dearly-beloved children completely dependant on themselves at his decease. Under
      such circumstances he gladly availed himself of an opportunity of placing me as junior teacher
      in an extensive ladies' boarding-school at Kensington.  
  "My father brought me up to London, and left me at Mrs. Lambkin's establishment, which was
      called Belvidere House. He wept when he took leave of me; but as Mrs. Lambkin (who was a
      widow, about forty years of age) spoke very kindly, and promised to take great care of me, the
      sorrow of parting was somewhat mitigated on both sides. I was to receive no salary the first
      year; but if I suited, my remuneration was fixed at six pounds for the second year, to be
      increased subsequently.  
  "When my father took his leave, Mrs. Lambkin said, 'My dear sir, do not be grieved at
      parting from your daughter. She will find a mother in me. I will be all to her that her own
      maternal parent would be, were she alive. God bless her! she's a pretty, amiable looking girl;
      and I already love her!'—Then Mrs. Lambkin put her handkerchief to her eyes; and my poor
      father was deeply affected. Mrs. Lambkin proceeded to inform him that she had scarcely ever
      known a moment's happiness since poor dear Mr. Lambkin's death, which took place, she said,
      five years previously, and in a most distressing manner. 'In fact, Mr. Hutchinson,' she
      continued, 'Mr. Lambkin lost his valuable life when gallantly attempting to rescue an ill-used
      and most virtuous young woman from a brutal assault on the part of half-a-dozen intoxicated
      policemen.'—My father expressed great sorrow at this information. Mrs. Lambkin had wine and
      cake brought in; and at length my father took his leave, greatly comforted to think that I
      should have obtained a situation in the establishment of so kind-hearted and excellent a
      lady.  
  "Scarcely had my father left the door, when Mrs. Lambkin turned round towards me, and in a
      tone which I considered somewhat inconsistent with her former manner and language, exclaimed,
      'Now, miss, dry those tears, and go up to your room to make yourself decent for afternoon
      school. The young ladies at Belvidere House all belong to the first families of distinction,
      and are accustomed to see the teachers well dressed.' Then, ringing the bell, she said to a
      smart servant who answered the summons, 'Jessica, show Miss Hutchinson to her room.' Jessica
      took a good long stare at me, then turning sharply round, told me to follow her. We proceeded
      up two handsome flights of stairs, beautifully, carpetted. On the second floor, the doors of
      several bed-rooms stood open; and I could not help admiring the comfort—nay, even the luxury,
      which their interior revealed to the hasty glance that I threw into them. 'These are the young
      ladies' rooms,' said Jessica abruptly: 'yours is higher up.' On the third floor I also
      observed the doors of several chambers standing open, and permitting glimpses of great
      neatness inside. 'These are   our  this is yours,' she added, flinging open the door of a garret, wherein I
      perceived nothing save a mean-looking bed, one chair, a table with a wash-hand basin on it, a
      brown stone pitcher in a corner, and a glass as large as the palm of my hand hanging to a pin
      stuck in the wood-work of the window.  
  "I was about to offer some observation, thinking that Jessica had made a mistake in showing
      me to this garret; but I checked myself—being unwilling to commence my noviciate at Belvidere
      House with any thing in the shape of a complaint. 'Will you have the kindness to bring me up
      my trunk and bonnet-box?' said I, in as polite and meek a manner as possible.—Miss Jessica
      burst out laughing in my face. 'Well! that is a pretty thing, I don't think!' she exclaimed,
      tossing her head haughtily: 'an under teacher to ask an upper servant to bring up her trunk!
      Well—I never!'—'I am very sorry if I have offended you,' I said.—'If you really don't know
      better,' answered Jessica, looking at me attentively, 'I don't mind forgiving you this time.
      And I'll do more, too, for I'll tell the scullery girl to help you up with your things; but of
      course even   she   wouldn't do it alone.'—My heart rose into my mouth; and it was only
      by means of a desperate effort that I restrained my tears.—'Do the other teachers sleep on
      this floor?' I asked, more for the sake of concealing my emotions, than gratifying my
      curiosity.—'Miss Muddle, the head teacher,' replied Jessica, 'sleeps in the room of the first
      class young ladies: Miss Spinks, the second teacher, sleeps with the second class; Miss
      Pantile, the third teacher, with the third class; Miss Rhodes, Miss Jessop, and you occupy
      this part of the house. But I'll go and tell Betsy to help you up with your things.'  
  "Jessica walked away in the most stately manner, preceding me down stairs, and evidently
      considering me her inferior. Betsy was summoned; and with no small amount of grumbling, that
      dirty slattern condescended to hold one end of my trunk, while I carried the other. Scarcely
      had I dressed myself in my second best gown (I had but three)—when Jessica came up to say that
      Mrs. Lambkin was excessively angry at the length of time I took to make myself decent. Jessica
      herself was in a very bad humour at being obliged to mount four flights to convey this
      message, and told me in an insolent manner not to dawdle so again.  
  "Trembling, miserable, and unhappy, I went down to the school-room, where Mrs. Lambkin
      scolded me, before the other teachers and the young ladies, in no measured terms. Then,
      because I cried, she scolded me the more. At length she set me to teach four little girls, of
      ages varying from eight to ten. Miss Muddle, Miss Spinks, and Miss Pantile, all surveyed me
      with the most sovereign contempt: Miss Rhodes and Miss Jessop, who were not much older than
      myself (whereas the three senior teachers were all past thirty) looked at me in a more
      friendly manner. The ages of the boarders varied from eight to sixteen. They were all
      beautifully dressed; and some of the elder ones were very pretty. There were about forty young
      ladies altogether in the establishment.  
  "The four little girls whom I had to teach, were as stupid as they well could be, and so
      pert that I scarcely knew how to manage them. They laughed and giggled at every attempt which
      I made to instruct them. Sometimes Mrs. Lambkin would exclaim, 'Hutchinson, there's too much
      noise with your class;'—and when I spoke very low to my pupils, it was, 'Hutchinson, you're
      literally doing nothing there!' The three senior teachers were alone addressed by Mrs. Lambkin
      as   Miss  : with the three juniors it was plain   Rhodes  ,   Jessop  , and
         Hutchinson  .  
  "At tea-time, the three senior teachers sate near the mistress of the establishment, and had
      tea and thin bread-and-butter: the three junior teachers sate amongst the little girls, and
      had milk-and-water, and thick bread-and-butter. The same arrangement existed at breakfast. At
      dinner, the three junior teachers were expected to eat the cold meat; though none of the
      little girls were made to partake of it, and, as I once heard Jessica observe, 'such a thing
      as cold meat was never touched in the kitchen.' I only mention these trifling details to give
      you an idea of Mrs. Lambkin's fashionable academy. I may add that the junior teachers had to
      make their own beds, and fetch up their own water in the great stone pitchers.  
  "I soon found that Mrs. Lambkin was very far from being so amiable as she had appeared in
      the presence of my father—except of an evening, after about six or seven o'clock; and then she
      grew more cheerful—nay, jovial, and was very familiar with us all. But she was constantly
      leaving the room where we all sate, and remaining away for only a few minutes each time; but
      the oftener she went out in this strange manner, I noticed that the more good-humoured she
      grew.  
  "Thus some weeks passed away. One evening I had solicited permission to go out for a few
      minutes to take a letter to the post for my father (for the servants would do nothing to
      oblige the junior teachers), when one of the eldest boarders in the establishment (the
      Honourable Miss Adeline Enfield) accosted me in the passage, and, in a hasty whisper, said,
      'Dear Miss Hutchinson, will you put this letter in the post for me?'—'Certainly,' I
      replied.—'You need not say a word about it, you know,' added Miss Enfield; and she glided
      away.—I did not think very seriously of the matter, knowing that it was against the rules of
      the establishment for the young ladies to write to their friends or parents without allowing
      Mrs. Lambkin to inspect their letters; and as I considered this to be a harsh regulation, I
      did not hesitate to oblige Miss Enfield—especially as she had addressed me in so kind a tone.
      I accordingly posted her letter, and thought no more of the subject. But the next time I was
      going out, Miss Enfield repeated her request, and again ran away ere I could reply. I noticed
      that this letter was addressed to the same person as the former one—namely, '  Captain
       Cholmondeley, Barracks, Knightsbridge  ;'—but supposing that he might be a relative, I did
      not hesitate to post the epistle.  
  will be addressed to you, the letter inside will be for me,' she answered,
      laughing.—'And what would Mrs. Lambkin say if she knew it?' I asked.—'She cannot know it
      unless you tell her; and I am sure you will not do that, dear Miss Hutchinson,' returned the
      Honourable Miss Enfield.—'I will oblige you this time,' I said, after some consideration; 'but
      pray do not let this take place again.'—Then she kissed me so affectionately, I was really
      pleased to have made a friend of her; for I was so forlorn and unhappy in my situation—though
      I never let my father know how completely we had been deceived in Mrs. Lambkin's
      disposition.  
  "On the following morning the letter came: and when I could find an opportunity, I gave the
      contents (which was a small note carefully sealed) to Miss Enfield. She thanked me with a
      sweet smile. Three or four days afterwards, another letter came addressed to me, with another
      enclosure for Miss Enfield. I was determined not to give it to her during the day, because I
      could find no opportunity to speak to her unobserved. Accordingly, as I anticipated, she came
      up to my room in the evening, after we had all retired to rest. I then gave her the note, but
      with a firm and decided assurance that I would not be the intermediate of any further
      correspondence carried on in so secret a manner. She cried very bitterly at my resolve, and by
      means of some tale which it is not worth while to repeat, but which seemed to me satisfactory
      at the time, induced me to convey a letter to the post for her next day, and receive the
      answer in the usual manner. I foolishly allowed myself to be over-persuaded, and fulfilled her
      wishes in both respects. I must observe that her letter was addressed to the same person as
      the two preceding ones.  
  "She was very grateful to me for my kindness, and treated me with marked attention. Being
      the daughter of a noble house, her conduct towards me produced a pleasant effect in respect to
      the three senior teachers, who, seeing that Miss Enfield courted my society, began to treat me
      more as their equal than they had hitherto done. Mrs. Lambkin also grew less harsh towards me;
      and my position acquired some degree of comfort.  
  "One evening, after I had retired to my garret, Miss Enfield paid me another visit. She had
      another favour to ask me. 'The day after to-morrow,' she said, 'I shall have leave to go out
      for a little shopping. Will you accompany me?'—I replied that I should do so with much
      pleasure.—'Very well,' she said; 'leave me to manage it. I will ask Mrs. Lambkin to-morrow
      night, when she has been out of the room three or four times——.'—'I do not understand why you
      should choose that moment,' I said.—'Oh!' was the answer, 'when she has had her third or
      fourth glass, she can refuse me nothing; and she is sure to ask whom I will have of the
      teachers to accompany me.'—'Her third or fourth glass!' I exclaimed.—'Yes, to be sure,'
      returned Miss Enfield. 'What! I thought every one knew that she drinks like a fish; although
      she does do it on the sly. Her husband was a dreadful drunkard.'—'Indeed! I am sorry to hear
      this,' I observed. 'Moreover, I thought that her husband was a most respectable person.'—'Oh!
      I dare say Mrs. Lambkin has been telling you that nonsense about her husband's death,' said
      Miss Enfield, laughing. 'The truth is, he was coming home one night most terribly the worse
      for liquor, when he became involved in a dispute with a bad woman; and when the police
      interfered, he made a desperate assault upon them, and was killed by an unlucky blow with one
      of their bludgeons.'—'She told quite a different tale to my father,' I observed.—'Yes, because
      your father is a clergyman, and may recommend some boarders to her house,' returned Miss
      Enfield. 'Did she not also seem mighty civil and polite before him?'—I confessed that she
      did.—'And the moment his back was turned, did she not turn also?'—This I likewise
      admitted.—'She cannot keep her temper long, you see. But I must go now, for fear Miss Muddle
      should awake, and happen to find out that I have left my bed. Good night, dear Miss
      Hutchinson. The day after to-morrow we will go out shopping together.'  
  "Then the Honourable Miss Enfield withdrew, leaving me greatly astonished at what I had
      heard. I lay awake the greater part of the night, reflecting on all that she had told me; and
      when I thought of this young lady's rank, youth, beauty, and brilliant prospects, I felt sad
      at the idea that the purity of her soul had been in the least degree interfered with by tales
      of drunken men, bad women, and police-riots, as well as by the example of an intemperate
      school-mistress. Miss Enfield's communication had shed a new light upon my mind. The term
       '  bad woman  ' set me thinking what it could mean; and at last I comprehended its
      signification. Oh! how I shuddered when that first consciousness of the real extent to which
      female frailty can reach, grew more and more defined in my imagination, until I understood its
      deep shade of guilt. The first step towards teaching the youthful mind to become infidel, is
      to suffer it to know that there live men, in Christian countries, who deny the truth of
      revealed religion:—the first step towards inducing a young girl to harbour impure thoughts, is
      to show her that female depravity has, in its worst sense, an indubitable existence!  
  "The Honourable Miss Enfield was as good as her word. She obtained permission to go out
      shopping, and also for me to accompany her. It was three o'clock, on a beautiful spring
      afternoon, when Miss Enfield and myself sallied forth together. 'The best shops lie in this
      direction,' I observed, pointing towards the left.—'Oh! no, my dear Miss Hutchinson,' she
      said, with a merry laugh: 'the spot that will suit me is in   this   direction;'—and she
      took the road to London. I made no objection; my duty was to accompany her for the sake of
      appearances—not precisely to take care of her, because, although eight months younger than I,
      she was as tall and as matured in form as myself. Indeed she was very precocious, but, as I
      have before said, very pretty.  
  that they were looking attentively at us; but in a few moments I heard one of the
      officers exclaim, 'It   is   my dearest Adeline! I felt convinced that she would not
      disappoint me.'—'Not for worlds, Cholmondeley,' she replied;—and, in another moment, she had
      left me and was hanging on the officer's arm.—'Now, Dunstable, you do the amiable with Miss
      Hutchinson,' said Captain Cholmondeley to his companion; and before I could recover from the
      stupefaction into which these proceedings threw me, I found myself arm-in-arm with a handsome
      young officer, whom I soon afterwards ascertained to be Lord Dunstable.  
  "For some time I walked on in profound silence, conscious that I was doing wrong, but unable
      to muster up the courage sufficient to withdraw from the false position in which Miss
      Enfield's intrigue had placed me. At length the gentle tones of a kind but manly voice
      penetrated through the chaos of ideas which agitated in my brain. 'Wherefore so silent, Miss
      Hutchinson?' said the young officer: 'does my boldness in constituting myself your companion
      offend you? If so, I will instantly release you from the unpleasant contact of my society.'—I
      made no answer, but burst into tears.—'By heaven! you are a sweet girl,' he continued; 'and I
      feel that I can love you sincerely. But dry those lovely eyes: there are persons about who may
      observe us.'—He was right: I wiped away the tears; and, after hazarding a few brief replies to
      his remarks, I insensibly fell into conversation with him. By degrees I lost the restraint and
      embarrassment which had at first possessed me; and ere I had been half an hour in his society,
      I laughed heartily at his lively sallies and sprightly observations. In the mean time Adeline
      was walking at a considerable distance in front, with the Honourable Captain Cholmondeley.  
  "Nearly two hours passed away in this manner; and then I insisted upon returning to
      Belvidere House. We accordingly overtook Miss Enfield and the Captain; and I signified my
      desire, observing that Mrs Lambkin would be angry did we remain absent much longer. 'We will
      not part with you, ladies,' said the Captain, 'unless you promise to lighten our darkness
      again with your presence ere we are all a week older.'—'This day week we could manage it
      again,' immediately observed Miss Enfield.—I murmured an objection.—'If you do not come, my
      dearest Miss Hutchinson,' whispered Lord Dunstable to me, 'I shall either hang or drown
      myself.'—I smiled; and Adeline, who was watching my countenance, cried, 'Oh! Lydia is such a
      dear good-natured creature, and we are such friends, I am sure she will not refuse.'—Again I
      smiled; and this was taken for an assent on my part. Then the two gentlemen looked round, and,
      perceiving no strangers near at the present, they bade us farewell in a most tender manner:—I
      mean that Captain Cholmondeley pressed Adeline in his arms, while Lord Dunstable literally
      glued his lips to mine. And I——Oh! my resistance was but feeble!  
  "Miss Enfield and myself then retraced our steps towards Belvidere House; but to save
      appearances, she purchased some articles at the first linen-draper's shop that we came to.
      'Ah! Miss Adeline,' I said, as we proceeded homewards, 'what have we both been
      doing?'—'Enjoying ourselves very much, dear Lydia,' answered the young lady, laughing
      heartily. 'I am sure you ought not to complain, for you have made the conquest of a lord,
      handsome, and wealthy.'—'But what will he think of me?' I exclaimed.—'That you are a very
      pretty, amiable, delightful girl,' rejoined the Honourable Miss Enfield.—'And all this was
      planned on your part, Miss Adeline?' I said.—'Call me   Adeline   in future,' answered
      Miss Enfield; 'for now you and I are sworn friends. Yes; the whole matter was pre-arranged so
      far as my meeting with Cholmondeley was concerned; and as I told him in my last note that
         you   would accompany me, he was too gallant not to engage a friend to take charge of
      you while he and I were conversing together.'—'Are you going to be, married to Captain
      Cholmondeley?' I inquired.—'He has promised to demand my hand of my parents the moment I leave
      school,' replied Adeline: then after a pause, she added, 'And if you play your cards well, you
      may become Lady Dunstable.'—This assurance electrified me: it filled me with new hopes, new
      visions, new aspirations. In a few moments I saw myself (in imagination) the wife of a Lord,
      my father a Bishop, through my husband's influence, and my brother a rich gentleman to whose
      addresses no heiress would turn a deaf ear!  
  "I could not sleep all that night! I considered my fortune already assured; and I declare
      most solemnly that I felt more delight, in the visions of prosperity and bliss which I
      conjured up, on account of my father and brother, than for the sake of myself. The week passed
      away: I did not oppose Miss Enfield's intimation to me that we should keep our appointment
      with the two officers; and, permission having been obtained as before, we sallied forth. Hyde
      Park was soon gained; and we were not kept waiting a moment by our
        beaux  —for they were already at the place of meeting. They received us with
      evident delight; and as Lord Dunstable pressed my hand tenderly, my eyes met his—a deep blush
      suffused my countenance—and I felt that I already loved him.  
  "Adeline walked apart with the Captain: and I remained with Lord Dunstable. He spoke to me
      more freely, but not less respectfully, than on the former occasion. He assured me that he had
      thought of nothing, since we last met, save the prospect of seeing me again; and he forced
      from me an avowal that I too had not altogether forgotten him! We had been thus together for
      half an hour, when it began to rain. The Honourable Captain Cholmondeley and Adeline then
      turned and joined us. 'This rain is a great nuisance,' said the Captain: 'it is impossible to
      keep the ladies out in it; and it is equally impossible to part with them so soon.'—'What is
      to be done?' asked Lord Dunstable.—'My private residence is close by,' said the Captain; 'and
      if the ladies would take shelter there, until the rain is over, they shall be treated with as
      much respect as if they were at home.'—'Well, on that condition,' exclaimed Miss Enfield, 'we
      will assent.'—I was about to offer some remonstrance, when Lord Dunstable whispered a few
      tender words in my ear; and the objection died upon my lips.  
  that we laughed, and chatted, and ate, and drank as happily as if Adeline and
      myself were in no way tied to time. But presently my senses became obscured; my head swam
      round; and I was ready to fall from my seat. I have a faint idea of beholding Adeline sitting
      on the Captain's knee; and then I recollected no more, until I awoke in the morning!  
  "But, my God! to what did I awake? Oh! even now I shudder as I recall to mind my sentiments
      on that occasion! I was in bed—in a strange bed; and by my side was Lord Dunstable. Then I
      comprehended that my dishonour had been effected! I uttered a scream—a wild, terrific,
      appalling scream! Lord Dunstable caught me in his arms, and said all he could to soothe me. He
      pleaded the extent of his love, called heaven to witness that he looked upon me as his wife,
      and swore by all he held sacred to make me so in the eyes of the law as soon as he could
      complete certain arrangements necessary to such a change in his condition. He spoke with so
      much apparent sincerity, used so many arguments to convince me of his love, and expatiated so
      eloquently upon the happiness which we should enjoy when united, that my grief was absorbed in
      a wild delirium of bliss!  
  "Then came the sudden thought, '  What was to become of me in the meantime?  '—'You can
      return to Belvidere House,' answered Lord Dunstable: 'Miss Enfield will make it all right for
      you.'—'Return to Belvidere House!' I exclaimed: 'impossible!'—'Nay, it is very possible,'
      rejoined my lover: 'Adeline, who is an uncommonly sharp girl, arranged it all last evening
      before she left. She said that she should let herself into Belvidere House by the back way,
      and that she should proceed straight into the parlour, where she should assure Mrs. Lambkin
      that you, Lydia, had come home with such a dreadful headach, you were obliged to go straight
      up to bed.'—'That excuse will do for last night,' I said, wringing my hands in despair: 'but
      this morning?'—'All is arranged equally well,' answered my noble lover. 'It is only now six
      o'clock: you are to be in the neighbourhood of the school by half-past seven; Adeline will
      steal out and join you: then you can both walk boldly up to the door, enter, and say that you
      have been out together for a little stroll, in accordance with a permission to that effect
      which Adeline declared she would obtain from Mrs. Lambkin last night, when that respectable
      lady was in her cups.'—These stratagems produced a great relief to my mind, because I saw that
      they were entirely practicable. But, even in that moment of my agitated soul, I could not help
      reflecting upon the deep artifice which lurked in the bosom of so young a creature as the
      Honourable Miss Enfield.  
  "I rose and hastily dressed myself. Then I took leave of Lord Dunstable. He renewed all his
      protestations of sincerity, unalterable love, and honourable intentions; and we arranged a
      plan of correspondence and future meetings. I stole from the house, unperceived by any of the
      inmates, and proceeded at a rapid pace towards the school. But how changed was my soul—how
      altered were all my thoughts! I fancied that every one whom I met, read the history of my
      shame in my countenance! Then I consoled myself with Lord Dunstable's assurance that I was his
      wife in the sight of heaven, and soon should receive that hallowed name in the eyes of
      man.  
  "At a short distance from the school, I met Miss Enfield. I cast down my eyes, and blushed
      deeply. She laughed merrily. 'Oh! Adeline,' I exclaimed, 'to what has all this intriguing
      brought me?'—'My dear Lydia,' she returned, 'our positions in that respect are equal; and, as
      our lovers will keep their words and marry us, where is the harm?'—I stared at the young lady
      with the most profound astonishment. How were our positions equal in reference to our lovers?
      She speedily cleared up my doubts. 'If you continue to blush and turn pale alternately, twenty
      times in a minute, as you are now doing,' she said, 'we shall both be suspected. We must
      exercise the greatest caution; for if it were discovered that we surrendered ourselves to our
       lovers——.'—'  We!  ' I repeated, contemplating her with increasing astonishment.—'My
      dear Lydia,' she continued, 'do you suppose that I was more virtuous than you, or the captain
      less tender than the nobleman? I certainly would not have accepted the invitation to visit
      Cholmondeley's private abode, if I had foreseen the consequences. But what is done cannot be
      undone; and we must make the best of it.'—I offered no reply: I saw that we were both
      completely at the mercy of those who had taken advantage of us,—that our positions were indeed
      equal in this one respect; and I fervently hoped that we might not live to rue the adventures
      of the last twelve hours!  
  "The Honourable Miss Enfield had so well arranged matters, that we entered the house without
      having excited the least suspicion of my absence throughout the night. And now commenced a new
      species of existence for me. My whole life suddenly appeared to be wrapped up in the promise
      which Lord Dunstable had given me to make me his wife. We corresponded often; and his letters
      to me invariably contained a note from the Honourable Captain Cholmondeley to Miss Enfield. A
      fortnight after the meeting which was so fatal to my honour, Adeline obtained permission for
      us to go out again; and we proceeded to Hyde Park, where our lovers joined us. An invitation
      to the Captain's private residence was again given; the weather was, however, fine—we could
      walk in the Park—and I positively refused. But Adeline and Cholmondeley disappeared for more
      than an hour! Dunstable was as kind and tender to me as I could wish: still he did not
      volunteer a single observation concerning our marriage; and, when I gently alluded to it, he
      declared that he was hastening his arrangements. Then he changed the conversation. At length
      the Captain and Adeline returned; and we parted with our lovers, promising to meet them again
      in a fortnight.  
  "The two weeks passed away: we met again; and on this occasion the invitation to
      Cholmondeley's house was renewed—insisted upon—and, alas! accepted. I will not dwell upon this
      portion of my narrative. Suffice it to say that Cholmondeley's residence was converted into
      the scene of unlawful pleasure and voluptuousness,—that Adeline with her lover in one room,
      and myself with Dunstable in another, entered upon a career of wantonness, which grew more
      insatiable as it progressed!  
  were not yet complete. At length the dream of hope and pleasure in which Adeline
      and myself had existed for half-a-year, was suddenly dissolved. Hastily-written letters were
      one morning received by us from our lovers, stating that they were about to proceed on a
      continental tour; that they had not leisure to meet us for the sake of taking leave; but that,
      on their return at the expiration of a few months, they should be delighted to renew the
      intimacy. Not a word of marriage in either letter!  
  "That night, at eleven o'clock, Adeline came to my garret. I was reduced to despair; and
      could offer her no consolation, although she needed it even more—oh! far more than I. The
      moment she found herself alone with me, she gave way to a paroxysm of grief—a convulsion of
      anguish, which alarmed me. I implored her to restrain her emotions, or we should be overheard.
      She sank upon my bed; and I soon perceived that she was enduring great bodily pain in addition
      to deep mental affliction. An idea of the terrible truth flashed through my brain: she was in
      the agony of premature labour!  
  "I had not even suspected her condition until that moment. I was bewildered—I knew not what
      to do. At length I thought it advisable, at all hazards, to alarm the house, and procure
      medical attendance. But as I was rushing towards the door for that purpose, Adeline caught me
      by the hand; and, turning towards me her countenance—her ghastly pale countenance, with an
      expression of indescribable anguish and alarm, she said, 'For God's sake, remain with me! If
      another be made acquainted with my shame, I will not survive this disgrace.' I locked the door
      cautiously, and returned to the bed-side. And there—in a miserable garret, and in the depth of
      a cold winter's night,—with a nipping frost upon the window, and the bright moon high in the
      heavens,—there, attended only by myself, did the delicately-nurtured Adeline Enfield give
      birth to a male child. But the little infant's eyes never opened even for a moment upon this
      world: it was born dead!  
  "An hour afterwards Adeline dragged herself back to the room in which she slept. That was a
      fearful night for us both: it was for   me  —it must have been for   her  ! I never
      closed my eyes: this terrible event weighed upon my soul like a crime. I felt as if I had been
      the accomplice in some awful deed of darkness. The cold and placid moon seemed to reproach
      me—as if its bright orb were heaven's own all-seeing eye!  
  "I could not endure that calm—unvarying—steadfast light, which appeared to be a glance
      immoveably fixed upon   me  . It drove me mad—it pierced my brain. That cloudless moon
      seemed to shine on none of earth's denizens, save myself. Methought that from its empyrean
      height it surveyed every nook, every crevice of my lonely garret; and at length so icy became
      its gaze, that I shuddered from head to foot—my teeth chattered—my limbs grew rigid. There was
      a deep conviction in my soul that the eye of God was upon me!  
  "I knelt down at last, and tried to pray. I called upon heaven—I called upon my father—I
      called upon my brother, to pardon me! Then once more I turned my eyes towards the moon; and
      its reproachful, chilling glance seemed to penetrate to the depths of my secret soul,—singling
      me,   me   out for its maddening scrutiny,—marking   me   alone, of all the human
      race, for its calm, but bitter contemplation.  
  "At length the orb of night was no longer visible from my window, although its silver flood
      still inundated the dwellings and the country of which my garret commanded a view. Then I grew
      more tranquil:—but I could not sleep!  
  "Never was morning more welcome to the guilty imagination haunted by the fearful apparitions
      of the night, than it was to me. I composed myself as well as I could; but when I surveyed my
      countenance in the glass, I was dismayed by its awful pallor—its haggardness—its care-worn
      look. I did not dare plead illness, as an excuse for keeping my chamber; because I was too
      anxious to ascertain what course Miss Enfield would pursue to escape those inquiries that her
      appearance, I felt convinced, must elicit. Besides, there was   something   in my box
      which—but of that no matter at present.  
  "I accordingly descended to the breakfast-room. The moment I entered, I cast a hurried
      glance around, and beheld Adeline seated in her usual place, chatting gaily with Miss Muddle,
      the senior teacher. We exchanged rapid and significant looks; and I moved in silence to my own
      chair. But I fully comprehended the indescribable efforts which Adeline was forced to make in
      order to prevent herself from sinking with exhaustion. Others noticed her extreme pallor, and
      spoke of the slight indisposition which she declared she experienced: but   I   saw how
      ill—how very ill, weak, and languid she really was. And I was pale and suffering too; and no
      one inquired what ailed me. This result of indifference on the part of all save Adeline,—and
      of prudence on   her   side,—was actually a great source of comfort to me; for had I been
      questioned, I know not how I should have replied. My confusion was extreme as it was; and yet
      I had much less to tremble for than Adeline.  
  "The breakfast was over; and we all repaired to the school-room. As we were proceeding
      thither, Miss Enfield drew me aside for a moment, and said in a hurried whisper, 'For heaven's
      sake, keep my secret, dearest Lydia: the honour of a noble family depends upon your
      prudence!'—I pressed her hand in acquiescence.—'I will ever be your friend, dearest Lydia,'
      she repeated.—Then we separated to take our respective places in the school.  
  "The usual routine was progressing in its monotonous and wearisome manner, when Jessica, the
      upper servant-maid, suddenly burst into the room, and, addressing Mrs. Lambkin, said, 'Ma'am,
      there's three silver tea-spoons missing; and as we've been quarrelling about it down stairs, I
      beg that all our boxes may be searched. Of course I don't mean the young ladies; or yet the
         senior   teachers, ma'am.'—The loss of three silver spoons was sufficient to rouse
      Mrs. Lambkin's ire; and she vowed that Jessica's suggestion should be immediately acted upon.
      The boxes must be searched. I felt as if struck by a thunderbolt.  
  glance which she darted upon me, as I followed the school-mistress from the
      room.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "The servants' boxes were all searched, one after the other; and no spoons were discovered.
      Then Miss Rhodes was subjected to the same degradation. When the scrutiny in respect to her
      trunk was concluded,—and, of course, without any success in respect to the lost articles,—she
      said, 'Madam, I beg to give you one month's warning that I intend to leave your
      establishment.'—'Oh! very well: just as you like,' returned Mrs. Lambkin.—Miss Jessop's room
      then passed through the ordeal. No spoons. 'Madam,' said Miss Jessop, 'I beg to give you one
      month's notice, according to the terms of our agreement. I know that my parents will not blame
      me, after this insult.'—'Very well, miss,' cried Mrs. Lambkin; 'you'll repent of leaving a
      good situation before you're six months older.' Then, turning towards me, she said, 'This
      won't prevent me from searching your boxes, miss; and I shall not die of grief if you give me
      notice also.'—'Such is not my intention, madam,' I replied, hoping that my submissiveness
      would plead in my favour, and prevent her from visiting my room.—'No; I should think not,' she
      retorted; and she walked straight away to the garret which I occupied.  
  that I felt fully persuaded she would never abandon me.  
  "But, oh! I did not thus reason so calmly nor so deliberately as I am now speaking. My brain
      was a whirlwind—my soul was a chaos; and it was only with considerable mental effort, that I
      could separate and classify my ideas in the slightest degree. And now the school-mistress
      approached my trunk: she raised the lid—I leant against the wall for support. My clothes were
      tumbled out on the floor: at the bottom of the box was a small bundle, wrapped round with
      linen articles. The school-mistress drew it forth—a terrific scream escaped my lips—the corpse
      of the infant rolled upon the floor!  
  "Jessica gave vent to an exclamation of horror and alarm, and was rushing towards the door,
      when Mrs. Lambkin, recovering from the sudden shock which this spectacle had occasioned, held
      her back, saying, 'In the name of God be cautious; or my establishment will be ruined!' Then
      turning towards me, her lips quivering and white with rage, she said, in a low hollow tone,
      'No wonder you are so pale and ill this morning! But must I look upon you as the
      murderess——.'—'Oh! no, no, madam,' I exclaimed, falling on my knees, and joining my hands
      together; 'that child was born dead. Listen to me, and I will tell you all; I will confess
      every thing!'—'There appears to be but little now to confess,' returned Mrs. Lambkin; 'and I
      have no time for idle conversation. The honour of my institution is seriously compromised: I
      will pay you the amount due to you, and you can leave my service this minute. It will be your
      fault if the real cause ever transpires.'—'Ah! madam,' I exclaimed, 'shall I not then be
      looked upon as the thief who stole your spoons?'—'No,' answered the school-mistress. 'I will
      declare in the presence of the entire establishment that my search has proved ineffectual in
      all quarters; and I will even allow you the merit of having left of your own accord, for the
      same reason which prompted Miss Rhodes and Miss Jessop to give me notice.' Mrs. Lambkin then
      turned towards Jessica, to whom she enjoined the strictest secrecy concerning the discovery of
      the dead child.  
  "At one moment, when on my knees before Mrs. Lambkin, I was about to confess the whole
      truth: but, now perceiving the turn which matters had taken, and that she herself was most
      solicitous to hush up the affair for the credit of her establishment, I saw that no exposure
      awaited me, and that I might save Adeline from disgrace and ruin without farther compromising
      myself. I accordingly intimated my readiness to leave on condition that the real motive should
      never transpire. Then I thrust my things back again into the trunk: but the corpse of the
      child, wrapped in linen, I left lying on the floor. 'Put every thing into the
       trunk—  that  , and all!' said Mrs. Lambkin.—'Not for worlds, madam,' I exclaimed,
      'would I remove my effects elsewhere, with   that   amongst them!'—"Wretch!' she cried,
      'would you have me dispose of your bastard's corpse for you?'—This insulting question brought
      the blood into my cheeks. Oh! it was too much to be thus reviled for a disgrace which did not
      really belong to me. Mrs. Lambkin saw how I was agitated, and, dreading a scene, she said in a
      low tone, 'You can remain here till to-morrow, Miss Hutchinson. If you choose to walk out this
      evening,   when it is dark  , you have my permission. But, in the meantime, you will have
      the kindness to keep your box carefully locked.'—I understood the hint, and bowed
      acquiescence.  
  "We descended to the school-room once more. The moment I entered I darted a glance towards
      Adeline which convinced her that   she   was saved. The one she gave in return was
      replete with gratitude. Oh! how much had I sacrificed, and how deeply had I suffered for
      her!  
  "The day passed slowly away. Fortunately the missing spoons were found in the evening: they
      had merely been mislaid by the cook or scullery-girl. I retired to my chamber at an earlier
      hour than usual: the presence of the school-mistress was irksome to me in the room below. In a
      short time Adeline came to me. She had stolen away to have an opportunity of conversing with
      me. Then I narrated to her all that had occurred in the morning. She threw herself upon my
      neck, and thanked me with tears in her eyes for having saved her from the depths of disgrace.
      She called me her 'sister'—her 'friend'—her 'dearest, dearest friend;' and vowed she would
      never forget the immense service which I had rendered her. Then I felt glad that I had acted
      as I had done. She even offered to go out, when the other inmates of the house had retired to
      rest, and dispose of the corpse of the child—her own child; but I knew that it would be death
      to one in her condition to venture abroad in the night-air. I accordingly undertook to perform
      that task also. We next conversed on my own prospects. I was averse to return home: I dreaded
      the numerous questions which my father and brother were certain to put to me. Adeline, who was
      an uncommonly worldly-minded girl for her age, instantly suggested that I should take a
      respectable lodging in London, and she would undertake to procure for me a situation as a
      nursery-governess. The Christmas holidays were at hand: she would be returning in the course
      of ten days to her parents' house in Belgrave Square; and she assured me that she should then
      have an opportunity of exercising her influence in my favour. To these proposals I assented;
      and she withdrew.  
  "When the house was quiet, I put on my bonnet and cloak, concealing beneath the latter the
      corpse of Miss Enfield's child. I then slipped out by the back way, and striking into the
      bye-lanes leading towards Brompton, at length reached a pond, into which a muddy ditch emptied
      itself. The moon was bright, and thus enabled me to discover a spot fitted for my purpose. I
      placed two or three large stones in the bundle containing the body of the child: then I threw
      the whole into the pond. The dark water splashed and gurgled; and in a few moments all was
      still once more.  
  "I now breathed more easily; but it was not without some difficulty that I found my way back
      to Belvidere House.  
  Adeline's name, I was immediately received with civility by the widow.  
  "I sent a porter for my boxes; and then my first care was to write a letter to my father.
      This I found to be no easy task. I recoiled from the idea of sending a tissue of falsehoods to
      that dear, confiding parent. Nevertheless, the duty was imperative. I accordingly concocted a
      letter, in which I informed him 'that having been grievously insulted by Mrs. Lambkin, I had
      left her service; but that I had met with a sincere friend in the Honourable Miss Adeline
      Enfield, one of the young ladies of the establishment, who had taken a great interest in me,
      and had not only promised to procure me a situation as a nursery-governess in a wealthy
      family, but had also recommended me, in the interval, to the care of a most respectable
      widow.' By return of post I received my father's answer. He regretted my precipitation in
      leaving Mrs. Lambkin until I had written to consult him; but admitted that the provocation in
      searching my boxes was grave. He expressed his entire confidence in my discretion, and
      declared his delight at the friendship I had formed with Miss Enfield. But he charged me to
      return home the moment I experienced the least difficulty in obtaining another situation. He
      concluded by stating that either he or Edgar would have repaired to London to see me; but that
      the expense was an almost insuperable barrier to such a step, their limited means being
      considered.  
  "Ten days elapsed; and then I knew that Miss Enfield must have returned home for the
      Christmas holidays. I accordingly expected an early visit from her. Nor was I mistaken. A
      magnificent equipage one afternoon drove up to the door; and Adeline stepped out. In a few
      moments she was seated in my little room. 'You see that I have not forgotten you, dear Lydia,'
      she exclaimed. 'I have told my mother, Lady Rossville, such a fine story about you,—how good
      and kind you always were to me, and how Mrs. Lambkin persecuted you without any reason,—that
      she has permitted me to visit you; and, more than   that  , she has recommended you to
      Lady Penfeather as a nursery-governess. There is Lady Penfeather's address; and you may call
      on her to-morrow afternoon. I have already said so much to her ladyship concerning you, and
      assured her of the respectability of yourself and family with such effect, that you will be
      received immediately.'—I cordially thanked Adeline for this goodness on her part; and she
      insisted so earnestly upon pressing on me a sum of money to enable me to improve my wardrobe,
      that I could not refuse her offer. She then embraced me, and took her leave.  
  "I will not dwell tediously on this portion of my narrative. On the following day I called
      upon Lady Penfeather, and was received very graciously. After some conversation, she engaged
      me at a salary of twenty guineas a-year; and I was to remove to her house immediately. She was
      an easy, affable, good-natured person—about thirty-six years of age, and not very handsome.
      Her husband, Sir Wentworth Penfeather, was three or four years older than herself, and was a
      fine, tall, good-looking man. They had three children, whose ages were between six and ten:
      the two eldest were girls, and the youngest a boy. These were to be my pupils. I hastened back
      to my lodging, and wrote a letter to my father informing him of my good luck. Then I settled
      with my kind landlady, and removed to Sir Wentworth Penfeather's residence in Cavendish
      Square.  
  "I was very well treated in this family. The servants were all civil and attentive to me;
      and the children were as ready to learn as children of such an age could possibly be. Sir
      Wentworth was very frequently in the apartment where I sate with them; and he was particularly
      kind in his manners toward me. He even laughed and joked, and conversed with me in a very
      friendly way. But in the presence of his wife, he was reserved, and never addressed a word to
      me. At length his attentions, when unperceived by Lady Penfeather, grew daily more
      significant; and he paid me many compliments on my beauty. I discouraged his familiarity as
      much as possible; but he soon grew more bold, and one day declared in plain terms that he
      adored me. I rose and left the room.  
  "Three months had now passed; and I had never seen Adeline since she called upon me at my
      lodging. I knew that she was not to return to Mrs. Lambkin's establishment, her education
      being completed (completed indeed!); and I felt hurt that she had not found a leisure moment
      either to call or write to me. I accordingly wrote a note requesting to see her. I was anxious
      to obtain another situation, and thus escape from Sir Wentworth Penfeather's importunities. On
      the following day Adeline called, and desired to see me alone. I was struck by her cold and
      distant manner. 'Miss Hutchinson,' she said, 'you must not be astonished at my conduct in not
      visiting you. You did me a great service: I have returned the obligation by procuring you a
      good situation. There are now no debts on either side. Our ways lie so totally different in
      the world, that were I to maintain an intimacy with you, my behaviour would be subject to the
      most annoying comments. We have both of us a deep interest in keeping each other's secrets.
      Were you, in a moment of anger against me, to state that it was my child that was discovered
      in   your   trunk, who would believe you? whereas, if you proclaim our respective amours
      with Captain Cholmondeley and Lord Dunstable, you publish your own shame at the time you
      denounce me. I am sorry to be compelled to speak thus to you; but I should have thought that
      your own good sense would have taught you the immeasurable distance which lies between you and
      me. Henceforth we are mere acquaintances, and nothing more.'  
  Hutchinson!' exclaimed Lord Dunstable; 'Oh! we are old acquaintances: I have had
      the honour of meeting Miss Hutchinson before. I used to visit at her father's house, at—at—;'
      and he hesitated.—'At the Parsonage, near Guilford, my lord,' I instantly added, my courage
      reviving when I felt my hand tenderly pressed in his.—'Ah! to be sure,' he exclaimed; 'and how
      is my respectable friend, your father?' he continued, casting a significant look upon me.—I
      answered the query; and Lady Penfeather was quite satisfied with the manner in which Lord
      Dunstable's knowledge of me was accounted for. His lordship went on talking to me about
      Guilford, (which, I really believe, he had never seen in his life); and Lady Penfeather went
      herself into the next room to fetch the children.  
  "The moment her back was turned, Lord Dunstable said to me in a hurried whisper, 'Dearest
      Lydia, you look more beautiful than ever! I have never ceased to think of you since we last
      met. I have much to say to you: will you meet me to-morrow afternoon, somewhere? Say in the
      Pantheon, (it is not very far from hence) at three o'clock precisely?'—I murmured an
      affirmative; and at that moment Lady Penfeather returned, accompanied by the children. Lord
      Dunstable affected to admire them very highly; and the mother was quite charmed with his
      amiability. I could not help noticing how much his continental tour had improved him; indeed,
      I had never seen him looking so handsome before: my heart was once more filled with the
      fondest hopes;—for I really loved that man.  
  "When his lordship retired, he shook hands with me again, and we exchanged significant
      glances. The pleasure I experienced at this unexpected meeting, and the interest he manifested
      in my behalf, banished from my mind the disagreeable impression created by Adeline's unfeeling
      conduct towards me. Oh! how slowly passed the hours until the time of our appointment drew
      nigh! I was so completely my own mistress in Lady Penfeather's family, that I could go out
      when I chose; and thus I had no difficulty in repairing to the   rendez-vous  .
      Lord Dunstable was there; and he advanced to meet me with pleasure depicted on his
      countenance. I took his arm, and we retired to the picture-gallery, where there happened to be
      but few loungers at the moment.  
  "He began by saying 'What must you have thought of my conduct in leaving England so
      abruptly?'—'It gave me very great pain,' I answered; 'and, after all your promises to me, I
      considered that I had reason to be both dissatisfied and unhappy.'—'Let me speak candidly to
      you,' he continued. 'I am so circumstanced, in consequence of being entirely dependent on my
      father, that marriage is for the present impossible. But I love you very sincerely, and
      absence has augmented my attachment. Are you happy where you are?'—I then candidly acquainted
      him with Sir Wentworth Penfeather's conduct towards me, and stated my determination to leave
      my present situation as soon as I could obtain another.—'Sir Wentworth,' continued Lord
      Dunstable, 'is the greatest scoundrel in respect to women, in London. If you do not yield to
      his wishes, he will slander you to his wife in private: and you will be turned away some fine
      morning without knowing why, and without a character.'—'Can he be so base?' I exclaimed,
      alarmed at this information.—'He is indeed,' replied Dunstable.  
  "Then, in a language so plausible—so earnest—so seductive, that I am unable to give you an
      idea of its speciousness, he proposed that I should at once place myself under his protection.
      At first I scorned the offer: he implored me to listen to him; he declared that he loved me to
      distraction, and that the moment his father was dead he would marry me. I wavered—he redoubled
      his entreaties, prayers; and at length he wrung from me a consent to his proposition! It was
      agreed that I should invent some excuse to quit Lady Penfeather in the course of the week; and
      Dunstable promised in the meantime to provide suitable apartments for me. Then we
      separated.  
  "But do not imagine that I did all this without a pang, when I thought of my poor father and
      my brother! Oh! no—I wept bitter, burning tears at my weakness, after I quitted my lover; and
      I resolved to recall my promise to accept his protection. In this better frame of mind I
      returned to Cavendish Square. The moment I entered, the servant who opened the door informed
      me that Lady Penfeather desired to speak to me. I proceeded to the drawing-room, where her
      ladyship was sitting. Sir Wentworth was also there. I immediately suspected that there was
      something wrong. Lady Penfeather said, in a cold and freezing tone, 'Miss Hutchinson, I have
      no farther need of your services. Here is the amount due to you, together with a quarter's
      salary in addition, as I have not given you a quarter's notice.'—'This is somewhat peremptory,
      madam,' I observed, when I could recover from this sudden and unexpected announcement.—'I
      should be even justified in turning you out of the house, without the quarter's salary, Miss,'
      retorted the lady: 'but I do not wish to behave too harshly to you; I would not, however,
      advise you to apply to me for a character.'—'My God!' I exclaimed; 'what have I done?'—'The
      levity of your conduct has been noticed by Sir Wentworth,' returned Lady Penfeather.—'Sir
      Wentworth!' I repeated, unable to believe my own ears; and then, in a moment, Lord Dunstable's
      words flashed to my memory.—'Yes, Miss Hutchinson,' continued Lady Penfeather; 'and as I
      recalled to mind the significant glances which you exchanged with Lord Dunstable yesterday, I
      deemed it my duty to have you watched this afternoon. Do you desire to know any more?'—'It is
      perfectly true that I have been with Lord Dunstable ere now,' I exclaimed, my blood boiling
      with indignation: 'but it is because I would not listen to the infamous proposals of your
      husband, madam, that I have been maligned, and am treated thus.'—Sir Wentworth started from
      his seat, livid with rage; and her ladyship ordered me to quit the room. I perceived that all
      attempts at explanation in respect to her husband's conduct were vain; and I accordingly
      obeyed this mandate.  
  "I now resolved to return straight home to my father. I accordingly repaired, with my
      baggage, in a hackney-coach to the   White Horse Cellar  by my side. I then told him all that had occurred at the Penfeathers', and
      acquainted him with my firm resolution to return home. Need I say how he implored me to
      abandon this determination? need I describe the earnestness with which he besought me not to
      make him miserable for life? His language was eloquent—he was handsome—I loved him—I was
      weak—and I consented to pass a few days with him ere I returned to my father.  
  "Alas! those few days were prolonged into a few weeks. I did not dare to write home: I
      fondly hoped that my father imagined me still to be in Lady Penfeather's establishment; and I
      felt convinced there was no chance of his coming to London so long as he entertained this
      impression. Lord Dunstable continued very kind to me. He had hired magnificent apartments for
      me in Jermyn Street, and allowed me a carriage, besides a handsome weekly allowance. He passed
      with me all the time he could spare from his regimental duties; but he never went abroad with
      me—except to a private box at the theatre on two or three occasions; and then he was so afraid
      of being seen by his relations, that I was quite miserable.  
  "Several times I made up mind to leave him and return home; for the remembrance of my
      beloved father and brother cut me to the quick. But how could I seek their presence,—I who was
      now polluted not merely through the treachery of my lover, but also through my own weakness!
      Nevertheless, day after day I resolved to abandon my present mode of life—retrace my steps to
      the home of my childhood—throw myself at my father's feet—confess all my errors—implore his
      blessing—and devote the remainder of my existence to penitence and virtue. Then my lover would
      make his appearance; and all my prudent designs would flit away as if they had never been.  
  "But one morning I was aroused from this dream of irresolution—vacillation—weakness—and
      crime. I was seated alone at breakfast, whiling away an hour with the newspaper. Suddenly my
      eyes fell upon an advertisement at the head of the second column of the first page. Oh! never
      shall I forget the agony of my feelings—the deep, deep anguish of my soul, as I read these
       words:—'  L. H., your father is at the point of death. Your afflicted brother implores you
       to return home. For God's sake, delay not; or it will be too late! All shall be forgiven and
       forgotten.  '—And in the corner was the name of my father's village!  
  "For an instant I felt as if I should go raving mad. My brain seemed actually to whirl. Oh!
      what a wretch did I conceive myself to be! Another moment, and I became all activity—hurrying
      the small preparations which were necessary for my departure. The terrible words, '  Delay
       not, or it will be too late!  ' seemed fraught with an electric impulse. A post-chaise and
      four were immediately ordered: I took with me but a small parcel containing necessaries;—all
      the trinkets, all the jewels, all the valuables which Dunstable had given to me, I sealed up
      and left behind me. I moreover penned a hasty note to bid him farewell for ever!  
  "I lavished gold upon the postillions to induce them to spare not their horses. The chaise
      rushed along like the wind. God knows what were my feelings during the few hours which that
      terrible journey lasted. I cannot attempt to describe them. Oh! if indiscretion and crime have
      their enjoyments, they are also doomed to experience bitter—bitter penalties. And my
      punishment was now at hand. It was not so long since I had journeyed along that road with my
      father—when he first conducted me up to London. Then we had travelled by the coach, and not so
      rapidly as I was now retracing the same path. Then, too, I had marked many of the most
      prominent features on the road and in the adjacent country,—here a church—there a picturesque
      farm—a cottage—a mill—or a hamlet! As I was hurried along in the post-chaise, I looked ever
      and anon from the window; oh! there were the same objects I had before observed;—there they
      were, apparently unchanged;—but I—my God—was I the same?  
  "But it was as I drew nearer and nearer to the little village where I was born, that my eyes
      encountered a thousand objects which aroused feelings of the most acute anguish within me.
      There was a beautiful hill to the summit of which I had often climbed in my youthful days,
      accompanied by my brother. There was the stream which turned the huge wheel of the water-mill
      in the valley, and the path along whose banks was a favourite walk of my father's. The wheel
      was turning still: my eye could trace the path on the river's margin;—but the days of
      innocence, in which I had rambled there—a fond, loving, and confiding girl, hanging on my
      father's arm, or skipping playfully away from him to pluck the wild-flowers in the
      fields—those days of innocence, where were they? The chaise rolled on; and now the spire of
      the village church, peeping above the mighty yew-trees which surrounded the sacred temple, met
      my view. But, ah! what was that sound? The bell was speaking with its iron tongue: its
      well-known clang boomed over hill and valley. Merciful heavens! it was a knell! 'Oh! no—no,' I
      exclaimed aloud, clasping my hands together in bitter agony; 'it cannot be! God grant that it
      is not so!'  
  "And now the chaise rolled through the village: the humble inhabitants rushed to their
      doors—Ah! how many faces that I knew, were thrust forth to gaze at the equipage. I can picture
      to myself that when the condemned malefactor, on the morning of his death, is advancing
      towards the scaffold, he closes his eyes just at the moment when he feels that he has reached
      that point whence his glances might embrace all its hideous reality. Urged by a similar
      impulse, I covered my face with my hands the instant the chaise swept from the main-road
      towards the home of my childhood. I dared not glance in that direction!  
  "But in a few moments the vehicle stopped. The knell from the church-tower was still ringing
      in my ears: by an almost superhuman effort I withdrew my hands from my countenance, and cast a
      shuddering look towards the house. My terrible apprehensions were confirmed: the shutters were
      all closed; and I saw in a moment   that there was death in that abode  !  
  "From that instant all consciousness abandoned me for several hours. Indeed, it was not
      until the next morning that I awoke as it were from a hideous dream,—and yet awoke to find it
      all a fearful reality. I was in bed: my poor brother—pale and care-worn—was leaning over me.
      In a short time I learnt all. My father was indeed no more. He had breathed his last while I
      was yet on my way to implore his dying blessing. And he   had  blessing—he did not curse me, although I had been the cause of his death! Nor did
      my brother reproach me: on the contrary, he whispered to me words of consolation, and even of
      hope! Poor father—beloved brother!  
  "But I cannot dwell upon this portion of my narrative: it rends my heart—lost, guilty,
      wretched as I am,—it rends my heart to recall those terrible events to mind! Suffice it to say
      that Lady Penfeather had written to my father, to state that she had been compelled to
      discharge me at a moment's notice '  in consequence of the levity of my behaviour  ;' and
      she had added that, '  in spite of the excellent admonitions and example of herself and Sir
       Wentworth  ,' she was afraid I had formed evil acquaintances. This letter was enough to
      induce a parent even less loving than my poor father, to hasten immediately to London, where
      he commenced a vigilant search after me. He traced me to the   White Horse Cellar  ; and
      there, by dint of inquiry, he discovered that I had met a gentleman with whom I had gone away.
      He proceeded to Mrs. Lambkin, with the feeble hope that she might know something about me; and
      that lady told him sufficient (without, however, mentioning a word about the discovery of the
      dead infant in my box) to confirm his worst fears that I was indeed a lost and ruined
      creature! After passing several weeks in London in a vain and ineffectual search after his
      still dearly-beloved daughter, the poor old man had returned home, heart-broken—to die!  
  "And I gazed upon his cold clay—and I followed him to the grave which was hollowed for him
      near the walls of that church wherein for twenty years he had preached the ways of
      virtue—those ways which he himself had so steadily pursued. Oh! when the minister came to
      those solemn words '  Earth to earth, and ashes to ashes  ,'—and when the cold clay
      rattled down upon the coffin-lid,—what feelings were mine! You may probably divine them; but
      the world has no language that can express them!  
  "Scarcely was my father consigned to his last home, when my brother demanded of me a full
      account of my late proceedings. He could not believe that one who had been reared with such
      care, and in whose soul such sublime moral lessons had been inculcated, could have erred
      willingly. He expressed his conviction that some infernal treachery had been practised towards
      me. I threw myself upon his breast: I wept—and I told him all,—all, as I have now related
      these particulars to you. On the following morning he had left home when I descended to the
      breakfast-table. His absence alarmed me sorely; I was full of vague and undefined
      apprehensions. Alas! how speedily were they confirmed! Four days afterwards I received a
      letter from a surgeon in London, breaking to me the fearful news '  that my brother had died
       of a wound received in a duel with a certain Lord Dunstable  .'—A certain Lord
      Dunstable;—as if I did not know him too well!  
  "Was I, then, the murderess of my poor father and my noble-hearted brother? If my hand had
      not struck a dagger into their hearts, my conduct had nevertheless hurried them to the grave.
      I hated—I abhorred myself. But the bitterness of my reflections was in some degree mitigated
      by the hasty preparations which I was compelled to make for an immediate return to London. I
      had not money enough to enable me to take a post-chaise; and I was therefore obliged to wait
      for the Portsmouth coach, which passed through the village on its way to the metropolis. I had
      already made up my mind what course to adopt. Now that my father and brother were no more, I
      could not bear the idea of remaining in the place where we had all been once so happy
      together: I moreover knew that the parsonage-house would soon be required by the new curate
      who had been appointed as my late father's successor. I accordingly sent for the village
      lawyer, and gave him instructions to realize in ready money all the little property which had
      become my sad inheritance. I told him that in a few days I would let him know my address in
      London; and that he was to forward me the proceeds of the sale. But I retained a few relics to
      remind me of my departed relatives; and as I wept bitterly over them, I took a solemn vow that
      my future conduct should prove the sincerity of my repentance for the past!  
  "The coach made its appearance soon after mid-day: there was not a single person inside; and
      thus I was enabled to pour forth, without restraint, that grief—that acute anguish which I
      experienced at being compelled, by my own misconduct, to quit for ever the place of my birth.
      Oh! then I felt how hard, how bitter it was to arrive at the conviction that I had no longer
         a home  ! I was now wretched in the extreme: I had lost those who were nearest and
      dearest to me! Not to me was it given to close the eyes of the author of my being: not to me
      was it allowed to receive the parting sigh of that brother who had met his death in the cause
      of his sister's outraged honour! Wretch that I was;—I had no longer a friend—and no longer a
      home!  
  "The coach, on its arrival in London, stopped at the   White Horse Cellar  . I took a
      cab, and immediately proceeded to the house of the surgeon who had written to me. There it was
      that my brother had breathed his last! The duel had taken place in the neighbourhood of
      Bayswater: my brother received his adversary's ball in the breast; and although he lived for
      some hours afterwards, he never spoke again. Lord Dunstable conjured the surgeon to show the
      unfortunate young man every attention, and then took his immediate departure for the
      continent. But, from motives of delicacy, neither poor Edgar nor his lordship had communicated
      to the medical man the cause of the duel. It was only by means of papers found about my
      brother's person that the surgeon discovered that he had a sister, and ascertained where that
      sister lived. In the hurry, alarm, and confusion which followed the duel, the surgeon had
      forgotten to demand, and Lord Dunstable was too bewildered to communicate, any particulars
      relative to the family or friends of the young man who had fallen in the hostile encounter.
      Thus, had it not been for certain memoranda which were discovered in my poor brother's
      pocket-book, the surgeon would not have known to whom to write, and I might have remained for
      months—or even years—in ignorance of that dear relative's untimely fate. Full well did I
      comprehend the delicacy of his own conduct: he had not left a written trace which might expose
      my shame by revealing the motives that had led to the duel!  
  ordeal! The funeral took place;—and the earth closed over the remains of him who
      was cut off in the flower of his youth—a victim to my misdeeds! The kindness of the surgeon's
      family had hitherto made me their guest; but on the day after the mournful obsequies, I
      perceived the necessity of adopting some decided course, so as to intrude no longer on that
      generous hospitality. But the worthy surgeon questioned me closely; and finding that I had
      only recently been left an orphan, and was totally friendless, he insisted that I should pass
      a few weeks longer with his family, until he could obtain for me a situation as governess. I
      wrote to the lawyer of my native village; and by return of post he forwarded me an order on a
      London banker for thirty-seven pounds—the poor proceeds of the sale of the furniture in the
      parsonage house.  
  "Six months passed away: during that period I was treated with the utmost kindness by the
      surgeon and his family. But misfortune suddenly overtook that excellent man. The villany of a
      false friend plunged him from affluence into comparative poverty. This abrupt change preyed so
      deeply on his mind, that he put a period to his existence. His brother—a man of morose
      disposition and selfish character—undertook to provide for the widow and her children; and I
      was then compelled once more to shift for myself. I took an affectionate farewell of those who
      had behaved so well towards me, and removed to a humble lodging, where I soon experienced all
      the wretchedness of my lonely and unfriended position. I inserted advertisements in the
      newspapers, for the purpose of obtaining a situation as teacher in a school or governess in a
      respectable family; and although I received many replies, I failed to give a satisfactory
      account of myself. I could not refer to Mrs. Lambkin, nor to Lady Penfeather; and I found that
      my orphan condition excited but little sympathy in my favour. Thus a year—an entire
      year—passed; and at the end, I found myself without hope, and without resources. I knew not
      what would become of me. At length I mustered up all my courage, and proceeded to Rossville
      House. I inquired for Miss Adeline Enfield. The servant demanded my name, and left me standing
      in the hall for nearly ten minutes until his return. I was then shown into a small but
      magnificently furnished parlour; and almost immediately afterwards Adeline made her
      appearance. She advanced towards me with the most chilling hauteur of manner, and desired to
      know '  my business  .'—'Oh! Miss Adeline,' I exclaimed, 'have I no claims upon your
      friendship?'—'You must remember what took place between us the last time we met,' she
      answered. 'If you require pecuniary assistance, I will succour you   for the last time  ;
      but circumstances compel me to decline seeing you, or even   knowing   you in
      future.'—'And is this the way you treat me after all I suffered on your account?' I said,
      bursting into tears. 'Do you not reflect that your reputation is in my hands?'—'If you menace
      me, Miss Hutchinson,' she said, 'I shall know how to treat you. In a word, who would believe
      your story were you to proclaim it? You would only draw down upon yourself the vengeance of my
      family by endeavouring to shift your own disgrace on to my shoulders. The whole world would
      denounce you as a common impostress.'—An instant's reflection showed me that these assurances
      were strictly true. But my pride was hurt, and my feelings were poignantly wrung by the
      blackness of Adeline's ingratitude. Pushing aside her hand which tendered me a purse of gold,
      I exclaimed, 'From this moment, Miss Enfield, I consider myself absolved from all motives of
      secrecy on your account;'—and, before she could utter a word of reply, I left the room.  
  "I hurried back to the house where I lodged. The landlady met me upon the threshold of the
      door. 'Come, young woman,' she said, 'can you pay the fortnight's rent you owe me?'—'I have
      been disappointed,' was my reply: 'but in a few days——.'—'People are always being disappointed
      when they owe money,' she exclaimed. 'I shall keep your things till you settle your rent; and
      I shall let the room to those who can and will pay.' And she banged the door in my face. This
      cruel calamity reduced me to despair. I turned away from that inhospitable abode,—not with
      tears, for there is a grief too profound to find a vent by the eyes—but with an utter
      hopelessness that was distraction!  
  "I had eaten nothing since the morning: I was hungry, and I had not a farthing in my pocket.
      It was moreover cold; and I knew not where to sleep that night. Oh! then how bitterly did I
      regret the ebullition of pride and feeling which had prevented me from accepting the purse
      which Adeline had proffered me! It was now too late to conciliate her: I had used menaces; and
      I felt convinced that it would be impossible to make my peace with that proud and determined
      spirit. I wandered about the streets in a state of mind which every moment suggested suicide.
      Then did all the happiness of home and of the days of innocence recur to my memory with a
      force that nearly crushed me! I thought of my dear departed father and my noble-hearted
      brother—both hurried to the grave by my wickedness! Evening came—and I was still a wanderer in
      the streets, without a hope—without a feasible project! Hour after hour passed: midnight was
      proclaimed by the iron tongues of the thousand towers of this mighty city;—and I sank
      exhausted on the step of a door in Gerrard Street, Soho. I then became insensible.  
  goodness?'—She pressed my hand warmly, and declared that she was charmed at being
      able to serve so sweet a young creature. Then she asked me a great many questions; and I gave
      her to understand that I was the orphan daughter of a clergyman; that I had failed to obtain
      the renewal of my engagements as a nursery-governess: that I had been turned into the streets
      by my landlady, who had detained my boxes; and that I should have perished had it not been for
      the kindness and benevolence of my present benefactress. When I had concluded this statement
      of as much of my past life as I chose to reveal, the elderly lady exclaimed, 'And so you are a
      clergyman's orphan, my dear? How very singular! Poor curates' daughters are always falling
      into difficulties. But cheer up, my dear: I will be a friend to you. And first tell me the
      address of your hard-hearted landlady: I will send at once and redeem your things for you.'—I
      gave her the information which she asked, and once more expressed my profound gratitude for
      her goodness towards me. She patted my cheek, and then left the room, observing that she would
      send me up breakfast. In a few minutes a good-looking and smartly-dressed servant entered the
      chamber, bearing a tray containing coffee, hot rolls, eggs, and the usual concomitants of a
      good meal. 'What is the name of your excellent mistress?' I inquired.—'Mrs. Harpy,' was the
      reply, given with a smile the nature of which struck me as being somewhat strange.—'What is
      she?' I asked.—'She keeps a very respectable boarding-house,' answered the servant.—I did not
      like to put any farther questions; and the girl withdrew.  
  "I ate a very hearty breakfast, and then lay down again; for I was not quite recovered from
      the fatigues of the preceding day. I fell into a doze; and when I awoke, Mrs. Harpy was once
      more standing by the side of the bed. 'Here are your things, my dear,' she said: 'I paid your
      landlady fifteen shillings. That was for two weeks' rent owing, and a week she claimed because
      you had left without giving notice. She gives an excellent character of you, and proves all
      you have told me to be quite true. I am really as fond of you as if you were my own daughter.
      You are looking much better; and a nice little boiled fowl, with a glass of Port, will set you
      to rights. What time do you like to dine, dear?'—'My good lady,' I replied, 'you are heaping
      favours upon me, and I have not the means of paying you for any one of them.'—'Don't talk of
      that, my dear girl,' ejaculated Mrs. Harpy. 'I'm sure it is quite a pleasure to do any thing
      for you. But, by-the-by,' she added, 'you may just as well give me a memorandum for what I am
      paying for you; and as I shall be able to procure some nice, easy, genteel avocation for you,
      you can reimburse me at your convenience.'—Of course I was delighted at this opportunity of
      testifying my honest intentions and good-will; and I instantly affixed my signature to a slip
      of paper which she produced from her pocket. Mrs. Harpy kissed me very affectionately; and
      then, casually observing that she kept a very genteel boarding-house, concluded by saying that
      she would ask some of the young ladies to come up after dinner and keep me company for an hour
      or two.  
  "At four o'clock the pretty servant made her appearance with the boiled fowl and a small
      decanter of wine; and when the things were cleared away, the young ladies were duly ushered
      in. There were five of them. Their ages varied from seventeen to twenty-three; and they were
      all remarkably good-looking. It however struck me as somewhat singular that they were every
      one dressed in extremely low-bodied gowns, so as to exhibit a great deal more of the bust than
      was consistent with my notions of decorum. But as they were very affable and kind in their
      manners, and '  dear'd  ' me with much apparent sincerity, I ceased to think of that
      peculiarity. Presently Mrs. Harpy sent up a bottle of wine and some fruit, with her kindest
      compliments; and then the young ladies laughed and enjoyed themselves in the happiest manner
      possible. They drank the wine with great freedom and relish; and by degrees their conversation
      turned upon the topic of love. With this subject they were quite familiar; and the more they
      drank, the more license they allowed their tongues. They spoke of the kindness of Mrs. Harpy,
      of the gaiety of the life which they led in her establishment, and of the high acquaintance
      which they enjoyed. They seemed to know every young lord and wealthy gentleman about town, and
      compared the various qualifications of those personages. Their discourse became more and more
      animated in proportion as their imaginations were warmed with the wine; and at length they
      allowed such observations to escape them which made me blush. I was surprised at their levity,
      and had already begun to entertain strange suspicions of their virtue, when a bell suddenly
      rang on the landing. They all started up, and rushed out of the room—leaving me a prey to the
      reflections which their remarkable conduct had very naturally excited.  
  "I kept my bed, by Mrs. Harpy's advice, all that day; but I did not feel sleepy in the
      evening, after the young ladies had left me;—and even if the contrary were the case, I should
      not have been able to indulge a wish for repose, for after eleven o'clock the whole
      establishment seemed to be in a constant bustle. People ran up and down stairs; doors were
      banged; shouts of laughter awoke every echo in the place; glasses rattled on trays that were
      carried to the different rooms; and the boisterous mirth of men rose at intervals above the
      other sounds and noises. This confusion, as it appeared to me, continued until about two
      o'clock; and then the house became quiet. My suspicions were seriously excited relative to the
      respectability of Mrs. Harpy's establishment; but I endeavoured to quiet them by all the
      arguments I could conceive in that lady's favour, and which were prompted by my gratitude
      towards her. At length I fell asleep.  
  of the   young ladies   who had visited in my room on the preceding
      evening—returned into her apartment, banging the door violently behind her. This incident
      opened my eyes to the dread truth:—I was in a brothel!  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I threw myself on a chair and burst into a flood of tears. Merciful heavens! for what fate
      was I reserved? Had I indeed fallen so low that my only home was a loathsome den of iniquity
      like that? For some minutes after the occurrence of the incident just related, I felt as if my
      senses were leaving me. Suddenly the door opened, and Mrs. Harpy made her appearance. She
      seemed astonished at the condition in which she found me, and was about to make some remark,
      when I threw myself at her feet, exclaiming, 'I conjure you, madam—if you have any pity for a
      poor friendless orphan—let me leave your house this moment!'—'And where will you go, my dear
      child?' she said.—'To the workhouse, ma'am: anywhere, rather than remain here!' I
      answered.—'This is a pretty recompense for my kindness towards you,' she observed. 'If it had
      not been for me, you would have died in the streets.'—'Far better for me were it, had I so
      perished!' I exclaimed.—'Now, Miss,' cried Mrs. Harpy, growing angry, 'what is the meaning of
      all this nonsense?'—'Can you ask me?' I demanded. 'Oh! that the feelings which prompted you to
      assist me, should have been any other save the disinterested benevolence for which I so
      sincerely thanked you!'—'Then you know where you are, Miss, I suppose?' she said, with a leer;
      and, before I had time to give any reply, she added, 'I meant you to find it out in a day or
      two; and it's as well now as a few hours later. Here you are, and here you will stay. You
      shall be treated just in proportion as you behave; and this evening, I shall introduce some
      fine nobleman or gentleman to you.'—'Never!' I cried: then moving towards the door, I said,
      'Detain me at your peril!'—'So I shall,' answered Mrs. Harpy, coolly. 'I've got your I. O. U.
      for twenty pounds; and if you go any where, it will be to Whitecross Street prison, before
      you're many hours older. Remember, it's for   necessaries  and my heart sank within me, as I saw how completely I was in the power of that
      vile woman.—'So now you understand how you are situated,' she continued, softening in her tone
      and manner. 'This is what all young girls like you must come to, sooner or later; and you'll
      be very happy here, I can assure you. This evening a nobleman who patronizes my house, will
      call upon you; and if you have any of your nonsense with him, I'll send you straight to
      Whitecross Street to-morrow morning.'—With these words she left the room, locking the door
      behind her.  
  "I cannot attempt to explain the nature of my feelings during the remainder of that day. A
      good dinner was sent up to me; but I could not eat a mouthful. The servant asked if I should
      like to see any of the 'young ladies;' and I answered in a manner which convinced her how I
      recoiled from the detestable proposal. She smiled—as I thought, significantly,—as much as to
      say, 'You will talk differently in a very short time.'—At about nine o'clock Mrs. Harpy sent
      up word that I was to dress myself in my best attire—a command with which I positively refused
      to comply for I was determined that, happen what might, I would not assist in the sacrifice of
      myself!  
  "At ten o'clock the servant brought up waxlights, and a tray containing a bottle of
      champagne, glasses, and several plates of fruits and cakes. I watched these preparations in a
      state of dumb despair, bordering on stupefaction. Another half hour passed; and steps once
      more ascended the stairs. My heart palpitated violently! The door was thrown open;—a man
      elegantly dressed entered the room;—I cast one glance towards him, and, uttering a faint cry,
      sank insensible on the carpet. It was Lord Dunstable!  
  "When I awoke, I found that nobleman hanging over me, bathing my temples. He compelled me to
      drink a glass of wine; and I soon recovered full consciousness of the miseries of my
      condition. Starting from the half-embrace in which Lord Dunstable had clasped me, I surveyed
      him with horror. 'Do I frighten you, Lydia?' he exclaimed. 'I must confess that our meeting is
      a strange one. The old woman sent to tell me that she had a prize; but I little expected to
      find you here.'—'My presence in this house of infamy, my lord,' I answered, 'is one of the
      links in that chain of degradation of which you forged the first link. To you I owe all the
      disgrace and all the sorrow that I have endured. Not contented with my ruin, you deprived me
      of my brother.'—'Come, Lydia, this is absurd,' he cried. 'In the first place, a young female
      who meets a gentleman and walks with him in Parks or elsewhere, must not expect to escape the
      usual consequences. Secondly, your brother challenged me, like a rash and headstrong young
      fellow as he was: I sent him due warning by my second that I was certain to shoot him; but he
      would not take good advice, and I   did   shoot him.'—'And had you no regard for me at
      that moment?' I asked.—'Egad!' he replied, 'I only thought of myself. I fancied that if I did
      not shoot him, he might perform that good office for me; and so I was resolved not to give him
      a second chance.'—'Surely you cannot be in your senses, my lord,' I exclaimed, 'to talk of so
      serious a matter in such a flippant style?'—'Come, let us understand each other, Lydia,' he
      said. 'I did not come to such a house as this to receive a lesson in morals. Do you wish me to
      remain here with you until to-morrow?'—'No: a thousand times   no  ,' I replied. 'Your
      hand is red with the blood of my poor brother.'—'Very well, Lydia,' he answered coolly; 'then
      I will take myself off as quietly as I came. But for old acquaintance' sake I must do the
      thing handsomely.'—I heard his observation, the flippant tone of which made me avert my head
      from him in disgust; and I did not therefore see why he lingered for a few moments. At length
      he left the room, saying, 'Bye, bye, Liddy;' and when the door closed behind him, he began to
      hum an opera-tune, as he descended the stairs.  
  "Scarcely could he have had time to gain the street door, when Mrs. Harpy bounded into my
      room, exclaiming, 'Well, my dear, you have behaved very well, for his lordship went away in an
      excellent humour. What did he give you?'—'Give me!' I repeated, surveying that horrible woman
      with mingled indignation and terror.—'By Jove, he's a lord in name and nature both!'
      ejaculated Mrs. Harpy, as her eyes caught sight of a bank-note which lay upon the table.
      'Twenty pounds, as I'm a living woman!' and she clutched the object of her delighted
      avarice.—'Hold, madam!' I exclaimed. 'Not one farthing of that money will I retain! The man
      who gave it killed my brother!'—'I don't care who he's killed, or who he means to kill,'
      answered the old woman, 'But here's his money; and that I intend to keep.'—'  You   keep
      it!' I cried.—'Yes; who else? What an ungrateful hussy you must be, after I took you out of
      the street! This room and your board will cost you a guinea a-day. Then your clothes, washing,
      and other things are all extra. So I'll keep nineteen pound fifteen shillings on account; and
      you shall have a crown for pocket money. If that is not generous, I don't know what is; but I
      like to do the thing what's right.'—With these words she threw five shillings on the table,
      and walked off with the twenty pound note.  
  bosom. The other   young ladies   suddenly made their appearance: I received
      them with open arms;—we sate down to drink and chat;—I was put to bed in a disgusting state of
      intoxication; and on the following morning I awoke—reconciled to a life of infamy!  
  "Pardon me, if I dwell for a few minutes upon the characteristics of those houses of
      abomination, in one of which I was now located. Mrs. Harpy was an admirable type of her
      profession. She was mean and griping in the extreme when wringing an extra shilling, or even
      an extra penny, from her   boarders  , as we were called; and yet she was profuse and
      liberal in supplying us with costly wine. If we complained of having to eat cold meat two days
      running, she would storm, and declare that we lived too well as it was;—but she would think
      nothing of giving us a bottle of champagne, which could not have cost her less than eight or
      ten shillings, after dinner. She took from us every farthing that we received, and invariably
      made us out her debtors, although she never showed us any accounts. To give you an idea of her
      way of managing, I will relate a little anecdote. One Saturday afternoon, Matilda (whom I have
      before mentioned) asked her for a sovereign; adding, 'You know I have given you altogether
      thirteen guineas this week.'—'Thirteen guineas!' screamed the old woman: 'I'll take my Bible
      oath it was only twelve.'—'Well, call it even twelve, if you like,' said the young female:
      'you can well spare me a sovereign.'—'Lord bless the girl!' cried Mrs. Harpy. 'Why, there's
      seven guineas for your board and lodging; two guineas for your washing; that's ten; a guinea
      for pocket money; and a guinea for letters and needles and thread; that makes up the twelve,
      or else I never went to school to learn compound addition.'—'And multiplication too,' said
      Matilda. 'Why, I had but one letter all the week, and that was paid.'—'Well, my dear,'
      answered Mrs. Harpy, 'we will ask the postman. Come! I'll stand another bottle of champagne
      now, and you shall have an extra sovereign for yourself next Saturday, if you're lucky in the
      meantime.'  
  "We were complete slaves to this Mrs. Harpy. She had got a note-of-hand for twenty pounds
      from each of us; and if any one even so much as hinted at leaving her, she immediately
      threatened to wreak her vengeance by means of the sheriffs' officer. She seldom allowed us to
      go out to take any exercise, for fear we should decamp altogether; but every now and then we
      would all go together to Gravesend or Richmond by the steam-boats, or else to Copenhagen
      House, in the summer time, and to some minor theatre in the winter. Oh! the misery of that
      existence! We were slaves to an old wretch who was enriching herself at our expense, whilst we
      had not an opportunity of hoarding a single guinea against any sudden necessity or misfortune.
      Then, what atrocious proceedings were frequently enacted in that house! Hard by lived three or
      four idle fellows, who dressed flashily, spent a great deal of money, and yet had no visible
      employment or resources. Those ruffians were the   blinks  , or   bullies  ,
      belonging to Mrs. Harpy's establishment. Their tricks were manifold. For instance, they would
      pick up, at a tavern, coach-office, the theatre, or other public place, some country
      gentleman, or even a clergyman, whom they would ply with liquor, and then induce to accompany
      them to '  their aunt's  ,' where they would meet '  some delightful girls  .' Of
      course this was Mrs. Harpy's establishment. The respectable country gentleman, or clergyman,
      was plied with more liquor; and, if he would not drink fast enough, his wine was drugged for
      him. When he awoke in the morning, he would find himself in bed with one of the
       '  delightful girls  .' Presently, one of the bullies would rush into the room, declare
      that the gentleman had debauched '  his cousin  ,' and threaten an exposure. Then the
      poor victim was glad to compromise the business by paying a considerable sum, in order to hush
      up the matter at once.  
  "Sometimes, the bullies would attempt a similar scheme of extortion in reference to
      individuals who came voluntarily to the house; and if the latter resisted the exorbitant
      demands made upon them, they were not unfrequently maltreated in a most shameful manner. It
      often happened that a gentleman would become a regular visitor to the house, if he took a
      fancy to one particular boarder: in such a case he probably adopted a false name, and took
      every precaution to avoid discovery as to who he was. The girl whom he visited, was then
      directed to pump him; and if she failed to elicit the desired particulars, one of the bullies
      was instructed to watch and dog him when he left the house. By these means, his real name,
      residence, position, and circumstances, were speedily ascertained. If he were moving in a very
      respectable sphere, was married, or had any particular motives to induce him to keep his
      intrigue secret, he was the very kind of person who suited Mrs. Harpy and her bullies. The
      next time he visited the house, he would be surrounded by those ruffians, menaced with
      exposure, and forced to pay a considerable sum of money to purchase silence. But the evil did
      not terminate there. From that time forth, the unfortunate gentleman would be periodically
      beset by his persecutors; and fresh extortions would be effected to renew the pledge of
      secrecy on their part. Married men, moving in respectable spheres, have been   driven to
       suicide   by this atrocious system! Many a time have I read, in the newspapers, instances
      of self-destruction on the part of gentlemen whose pecuniary, social, or domestic
      circumstances afforded not the least appearance of any possible motive for such a deed;—and
      then I have thought within myself that those poor victims had been   hunted to death   by
      extortioners of the class which I have described! The man who has a   character   to
      lose, or who has the   peace   of his family to consider, knows not how fearfully both
      are compromised, both endangered, when he so far forgets himself as to set foot in a house of
      infamy. He may imagine that his secret never can transpire—that neither his family nor friends
      can, by any possible means, ever discover that he has thus erred;—but, if he be an individual,
      who, by his wealth and social position, appears worth the trouble of looking after, he will
      most assuredly find himself a prey to the vilest of extortioners. His happiness will be
      undermined and destroyed; he will live in constant dread of exposure: and deeply—deeply will
      he rue the day that he ever set foot in a brothel!  
  "The most bare-faced robberies are practised in even what are called '  the respectable
       dress-houses  counter-accusation of having given a bad sovereign in payment for champagne, on
      the preceding evening. On one occasion, a young gentleman who was so plundered, and so
      accused, carried the business to the Marlborough Street Police-Office. Mrs. Harpy attended,
      denied the robbery in the most indignant manner, and persisted in the accusation relative to
      the base sovereign. The proceedings took such a turn that the young gentleman was searched;
      and in his pockets were found   other counterfeit sovereigns  , exactly resembling the
         one   produced by Mrs. Harpy. Then Mrs. Harpy sent for her wine-merchant, her butcher,
      and her baker, who were all her near neighbours: and those tradesmen declared that Mrs. Harpy
      kept a most respectable boarding-house, and that she was a lady of good connexions and
      undoubted integrity. The magistrate then appealed to the policeman within whose beat Gerrard
      Street was included; and as he received five guineas a year from Mrs. Harpy for shutting his
      eyes, it was not likely that he would open them on that occasion. He fully corroborated the
      evidence of the wine-merchant, butcher, and baker; and the young gentleman was committed for
      trial for passing base money. Mrs. Harpy's story was that he had presented himself on the
      preceding evening at her house, and arranged to become a boarder in her establishment; that he
      obtained from her the change for the bad sovereign; and that, when accused of the act, he had
      turned round with a counter-charge relative to his watch. The magistrate declared that there
      was no doubt of Mrs. Harpy's perfect respectability, and commented severely on the
       '  infamous behaviour of the prisoner, in trumping up so vile an accusation, as a means of
       releasing himself from the odium of the charge laid against him  .' This young man
      belonged to a highly respectable family; and he had given a fictitious name in answer to the
      magistrate's question,   for he had only been married six months  , and was naturally
      anxious to conceal his visit to a brothel from the knowledge of his friends. But when he was
      committed for trial, he was forced to send for them, confess his indiscretion, and implore
      them to save him from the ignominy of exposure in a court of justice. A compromise with Mrs.
      Harpy was accordingly effected: she   paid   fifty pounds in forfeit of her recognizances
      to prosecute: and she   received   two hundred to abstain from farther proceedings! I
      need scarcely say that the young gentleman really had been plundered of his watch, and that
      the entire business of the counterfeit money had been arranged to ruin him. Again I declare
      that no one knows the woeful risks he incurs when he sets foot in a house of ill-fame. That
      one false step may embitter the remainder of his days!  
  "Some weeks elapsed ere I was completely aware of the infamies which were perpetrated in
      Mrs. Harpy's den; and then I resolved to leave the place, whatever might subsequently become
      of me. At length an opportunity served; and one evening, with only a small parcel of
      necessaries under my arm, and a few shillings in my purse, I slipped out of that scene of
      iniquities. I cannot enter into further details; suffice it to say, from that moment commenced
      an existence of fearful vicissitudes,—starvation one day, luxury the next,—the most abrupt
      descents into the lowest abyss of destitution, and the most sudden elevations to comfort,
      though still a career of infamy,—wanderings for many, many nights together, without knowing
      where to lay my head, and then a lodging and a good bed! Oh! it was horrible, that
      precariousness of life to which I was doomed!  
  "How often did I reflect upon the times of my innocence! Now and then I saw well-known names
      mentioned in the newspapers. The consecutive and rapid promotions of Lord Dunstable and
      Cholmondeley were not unnoticed by me. The presentation of the Honourable Adeline Enfield to
      court was an incident which affected me deeply; for it naturally led me to compare her
      elevated position with my degraded and wretched state. But one event, which was recorded in
      the newspapers, gave me, I must confess, some satisfaction: this was the bankruptcy of Mrs.
      Lambkin and her committal to Newgate for having fraudulently disposed of her property. I
      afterwards learnt that she died miserably in that gaol.  
  "But my own vicissitudes continued! Oh! let those who are prone to turn away from   the
       unfortunate woman   with disgust and abhorrence, rather exercise a feeling of sympathy in
      her behalf. She does not drag her weary frame nightly along the pavement, through
         choice  , but from   necessity  . In all weathers must she ply her miserable
      trade—or starve. Then to what indignities is she subjected! Every drunken ruffian considers
      himself justified in ill-using her: every brutal fellow jostles against her, and addresses her
      in terms of insult. Do they think that, because she is compelled to ply her hideous trade, she
      has no feelings? But it is chiefly from the young men who rove about the streets at night,
      smoking cigars, wearing pea-coats, and carrying sticks, that the unfortunate woman is doomed
      to receive the deepest indignity:—yes, from those who ought to have more chivalry in their
      dispositions! There is one base extortion to which the unfortunate woman is subjected, and
      which I must mention. I allude to the necessity of feeing the policeman belonging to that beat
      where the unhappy creature walks. The miserable wretch who deviated from this practice, either
      through inability or unwillingness, would never have a moment's peace. The moment she was
      accosted in the street by a gentleman, the officer would come up and order her brutally to
      move on; and perhaps he would add violence to harsh words. Then, on the slightest pretence—and
      often without any at all—the miserable woman is dragged off to the station-house, charged with
      creating a disturbance, and taken next morning before the magistrate. In vain may she protest
      her innocence of the offence charged against her: in vain may she denounce the vindictive
      motives of the officer. The word of one policeman is deemed worth the oaths of ten thousand
      degraded females; and the accused is sentenced to Bridewell accordingly. No one can conceive
      the amount of the wrongs inflicted by the police upon the most miserable class of women!  
  From this appalling condition your goodness has relieved me; and God alone must
      reward you—I never can!"  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXVIII.   THE TAVERN AT FRIULI.  
  Through the broad meadows, the waving woods, and the delicious valleys which lie on the
      northern side of the Ferretti, in the State of Castelcicala, two foot-travellers pursued their
      way.  
  Lovely flowed the river amidst the meads that were clothed in the country's everlasting
      green.  
  Busy hamlets, neat farm-houses, and the chateaux of nobles or wealthy gentlemen, varied the
      appearance of the magnificent landscape.  
  Although it was the middle of November, the climate was as mild and genial as that of
      September in the British Islands: the vines had not been entirely stripped of their luscious
      fruit; and the citrons, so plentiful that they were but little prized by the inhabitants, grew
      wild by the road-side.  
  Here groups of mighty chesnut-trees afforded a delicious shade to the way-worn traveller:
      there the tapering spire of a village church, or the white walls and slated roof of some
      lordly country-seat, appeared above the verdant mulberry-groves.  
  Nevertheless, the woodlands of Castelcicala were not characterised by that gloominess of
      foliage which invests the English and German forests with such awful solemnity; for the leaves
      were of a brighter green, and the density of their shade was relieved by the luxuriousness of
      the botany that spread its rich and varied colours over the surface of the land.  
  The banks of the Ferretti yielded an immense profusion of aromatic herbs, which imparted a
      delicious perfume and, at the same time, a freshness to the air.  
  Much as those two travellers had been accustomed to admire the loveliness of their own
      native England, they could not avoid exclamations of joy and surprise as they pursued their
      way amidst the fertile plains of Castelcicala.  
  We need scarcely inform our readers that those travellers were Richard Markham and his
      faithful Morcar.  
  Our hero, dressed in a neat but modest garb, and carrying a portfolio of drawing materials
      under his arm, journeyed along a little in advance of his attendant, who bore a small valise
      of necessaries.  
  In his pocket-book Richard had secured the two passports, for himself and follower, which
      the interest of Mario Bazzano had obtained, and which were made out in fictitious names.  
  Fastened to a riband round his neck, and carefully concealed beneath his raiment, was a
      small morocco leather case, containing the sealed letter left him, with such mysterious
      instructions, by Thomas Armstrong.  
  The well-filled purse which the generosity of the Grand Duchess had supplied, and a map of
      the Duchy, completed the stock of materials with which the travellers had deemed it fit to
      furnish themselves.  
  Their way now lay, according to the advice which Richard had received from the Grand
      Duchess, towards Friuli: thence it was his intention to strike off abruptly in a longitudinal
      direction, and, passing between Dandolo and Lipari, proceed straight toward the Neapolitan
      frontier.  
  On the fourth evening the two travellers arrived at Friuli, having walked upon an average
      thirty miles each day, and slept at night in some cottage or farm-house.  
  They did not, however, penetrate into the fine and spacious town which they had now reached;
      but stopped at a small tavern in the suburbs. There they ordered supper, which was served up
      to them in the public room, as Richard did not think it prudent to excite notice by having a
      private apartment.  
  Several other persons were sitting in the public room, busily engaged in imbibing the
      various liquors suited to their respective palates, and discussing, with great solemnity, the
      political aspect of the State.  
  By their conversation Markham judged that they must be the small tradesmen of the suburbs of
      the town, as they all seemed well acquainted with each other, and spoke as if they were in the
      habit of meeting at that tavern every evening after the bustle and cares of the day's
      business.  
  "Are you certain, neighbour," said one worthy burgher, addressing himself to another, "that
      the proclamation will be made to-morrow morning?"  
  "I believe, gentlemen," answered the individual thus appealed to, "you are all aware that my
      wife's father is Adjunct to the Mayor of Friuli; and the title of Adjunct is pretty nearly
      synonymous with that of Deputy. Well, then, gentlemen, my father-in-law being, you perceive,
      as good as Deputy-Mayor," continued the speaker, thinking that his prosiness would add to his
      importance, "he cannot fail to be in the mayor's secrets. That once granted, gentlemen, you
      can easily estimate the value of my authority for the tidings I reported to you just now. You
      may therefore rely on it, that the proclamation placing the entire province of Montecuculi
      under martial law, will be read in Friuli, as well as in all the other towns, villages, and
      hamlets of the aforesaid province, to-morrow morning, at nine o'clock."  
  "Then I suppose the whole Duchy will be placed under martial law?" observed another member
      of the party.  
  "No doubt of it," said the second speaker. "The worshipful mayor hinted as much to the not
      less worshipful adjunct, or deputy, this afternoon."  
  "The province of Abrantani has been for some time in an exceptional state, you know," said
      the individual who had first spoken; "and by all accounts, we had much better be under the
      yoke of the Austrians at once—just like the northern provinces of Italy. I tell you what,"
      added the individual who was now addressing his companions,—"I tell you what," he repeated,
      sinking his voice almost to a whisper, "there is not a man in Castelcicala who will not be
      ready to draw his sword against this most odious tyranny."  
  "Hush! hush!" exclaimed the relative of the civic authority, as he glanced towards Richard
      Markham and Morcar; "we do not know who may overhear us, as the adjunct often observes to
      me."  
  "The gentleman is an artist, and looks like a foreigner, too," said the individual whose
      freedom of speech had provoked this remonstrance: "he is not likely to meddle with our
      political business."  
  "Gentlemen," said Richard, "it is true that I understand your language, although
      I speak it imperfectly; but if you apprehend that I should make any improper use of the
      remarks which fall from you, I will at once retire to a private room."  
  "Well spoken!" ejaculated one of the company. "No, sir—you shall not leave the room on our
      account. If I mistake not, you must be an Englishman or a Frenchman; and I like both those
      nations—for they know what true freedom is, while we are slaves,—abject slaves."  
  "Yes,—and I admire the English, too," cried the person who had before spoken with so little
      reserve. "Have they not given an asylum to that excellent Prince who is only exiled because he
      was the people's friend—because he wished to obtain for us a Constitution that would give us
      Houses of Parliament or Chambers, to be the bulwark of our liberties? Is not our Grand Duchess
      an Englishwoman? and has she not exerted herself to the utmost to mitigate the severity of
      Angelo III?   That   is no secret. And, when I think of it, I remember hearing at Ossore
      (where I was, you know, a few days ago,) that it was a young Englishman who rallied the
      Constitutionalists when they were flying, after the fall of General Grachia."  
  "What became of him?" asked one of the company.  
  "It is known that he was taken prisoner," was the reply; "but as he disappeared almost
      immediately afterwards, it is supposed that he was hurried off without delay to one of the
      fortresses in the interior—Pinalla or Estella, for instance. Poor young fellow—I wish he had
      had better luck! But, as I was saying, you see we have good reason to admire the English—God
      bless them!"  
  "Amen!" exclaimed several voices.  
  The emotions of our hero, while this discourse was progressing, may be more readily imagined
      than explained: but prudence on his own account, and obedience to the advice of the Grand
      Duchess, sealed his lips.  
  Morcar continued to eat and drink without excitement, because the conversation passing
      around was totally unintelligible to him.  
  The relative of the mayor's adjunct was dilating pompously on the duties of a sovereign,
      when a post-chaise drove furiously up to the door of the tavern.  
  All was immediately bustle and confusion.  
  "Horses! four horses wanted!" shouted a voice in the passage.  
  Then commenced the rattling of harness,—the running hither and thither of ostlers,—and the
      usual calling and bawling which characterise such occasions.  
  All the inmates of the coffee-room, with the exception of Markham and the gipsy, rushed out
      to stare at the equipage.  
  Scarcely was the room thus left comparatively empty, when a tall man, wrapped in an ample
      travelling cloak, entered hastily, followed by the landlord.  
  "Here—we have not a moment to lose—give me change for this bank-note," cried the
      traveller.  
  "Yes, sir," said the host, and hurried from the room.  
  "Signor Bazzano," whispered our hero, who had started from his seat at the sound of the
      traveller's voice.  
  "What! Signor Markham!" said the young   aide-de-camp  , shaking him kindly
      by the hand. "This is indeed most fortunate! But I have not a moment to spare. Listen!
      terrible events have taken place at Montoni:   you   are in danger. You must separate
      from your attendant, and each gain the Neapolitan frontier by a separate route. Follow my
      advice, my dear Markham,—  as you value your life  !"  
  At that moment the host re-appeared with the gold and silver in change for the note; and
      Bazzano, having hastily consigned the money to his pocket, hurried from the room,—but not
      before he had darted a significant glance upon our hero.  
  In a few moments the post-chaise drove rapidly away.  
  Richard returned to his seat in a cruel state of uncertainty, doubt, and suspense.  
  What could that precipitate journey mean? was Bazzano the sole occupant of the carriage?
      what terrible events could have occurred at Montoni? and what was that fearful peril which
      would oblige him to adopt so painful a precaution as to separate from his companion?  
  Richard was at a total loss how to solve these queries which naturally suggested themselves
      to his mind.  
  While he was yet pondering on the singularity of the incidents which had occurred, all
      within the space of three or four minutes, the company poured back again to the
      coffee-room.  
  "Something mysterious there," said one.  
  "Yes—a post-chaise with the blinds drawn down," observed another.  
  "Four horses—and travelling like wild-fire," exclaimed a third. "The tall man in the cloak,
      who rode outside, came into this room. What did he want, sir?" demanded the speaker, turning
      abruptly towards Markham; "for I believe you did not leave the room."  
  "He obtained change from the landlord for a bank-note, sir," answered our hero
      laconically.  
  "Oh! that was all—eh? Well—the thing still looks odd—particularly in such troubled times as
      these. Did anybody hear the orders given to the postilions?"  
  "The tall man in the cloak said in a loud voice, '  The road towards Dandolo, my
       boys!  '" observed another of the company.  
  Richard smiled imperceptibly; for he thought within himself, "Then it is precisely because
      Bazzano said in a loud tone, '  Towards Dandolo  ,' that the travellers are going in
      another direction."  
  The company continued to debate, as all gossips will, upon the incident which had just
      occurred; and Richard determined to lose no more time ere he explained to Morcar, who had of
      course recognised the young   aide-de-camp  , the nature of the warning he had
      received from this individual.  
  He according bade the assembled guests "Good night," and left the room, followed by
      Morcar.  
  At his request, the landlord conducted them to a double-bedded room; and the moment the host
      had retired, Richard communicated to the gipsy all that Bazzano had said to him.  
  "There is but one course to pursue, sir," exclaimed Morcar.  
  "Which is that?" asked Richard.  
  me to your service—and he is incapable of deceiving us. He is your friend,
      sir—and you must obey him."  
  "But, my poor Morcar," said Richard, "I cannot part with you. I have lured you away from
      your family and native land, to lead you into these difficulties; and I would sooner die than
      abandon you in a strange country, with even the language of which you are unacquainted."  
  "My dear, good master," exclaimed the gipsy, his eyes dimmed with tears, "it will go to my
      heart to leave you; but if your life is in danger, I shall not hesitate a moment. Besides, the
      same peril that would overtake one, would crush both, were we together when it came; and it is
      folly for either of us to run idle risks in such a strait. No—let us follow the advice of your
      friend."  
  "Again, I say, Morcar, that I cannot part with you. Were any thing fatal to happen to you, I
      should never forgive myself. No," continued Richard, "you shall remain with me. If danger
      come, it is only I who will suffer—for it seems that it is only my life which   is   in
      danger. And this is probable enough."  
  "Ah! sir—I am not afraid of myself," exclaimed Morcar: "I would lay down my life to serve
      you! But I am convinced that you will only attract unpleasant attention to yourself, if you
      travel with a follower: one person can slip unperceived through so many perilous places, where
      two together would be suspected. Besides, sir, I shall not be quite so badly off in this
      strange country, as you suppose."  
  "How so, Morcar?" demanded Richard, surveying him with astonishment.  
  "There are Zingarees in this land as well as elsewhere," replied Morcar; "and amongst them I
      shall be safe."  
  "On that consideration alone," exclaimed Richard, struck by the truth of the observation,
      and well-pleased at the idea that his faithful dependant would indeed derive no small benefit,
      under circumstances, from the aid of that extensive and mysterious freemasonry to which he
      belonged,—"on that consideration alone I will consent to this separation. At day-break we will
      rise, and each take a different route. I will give you the map of Castelcicala, as its
      geography has been so well studied by me that I am fully acquainted with the direction of all
      the principal towns and cities. But let us fix a place where we can meet again. Our grand
      object must be to gain the city of Naples. On your arrival there, proceed to the abode of the
      English Consul, and leave with him the name of the inn where you put up: if I have reached
      Naples before you, that functionary will be enabled to tell you where I am to be found."  
  "I will strictly follow your instructions, sir," said Morcar.  
  "And now, my good friend," continued our hero, "I must speak to you as if I were making my
      last will and testament; for heaven alone knows whether I shall ever quit this country alive.
      You remember the secret of my affection for a noble lady, which I communicated to you the
      night before we landed on the Castelcicalan coast?"  
  "Not a syllable of what you told me, sir, has been effaced from my memory," replied Morcar.
      "You enjoined me that, if any thing fatal should occur to yourself, and Providence should
      enable me to return to England, I was to seek the Princess Isabella, and break to her the
      tidings and manner of your death, with the assurance that your last thoughts were given to
      her!"  
  "Such was my request, Morcar," said Richard. "I need now observe little more than repeat it.
      Let the one who reaches Naples first wait for the other fifteen days; and, if he come not by
      the expiration of that period, then let him——"  
  "Surmise the worst," added Morcar, seeing that our hero hesitated. "Your message to the
      Princess shall be delivered—if God ordain that so sad a result ensues. And, on your part,
      sir—if I come not to the place of appointment, and you succeed in reaching it——"  
  "Say no more, my dear friend," interrupted Markham, pressing the gipsy's hand; "we
      understand each other!"  
  And they each dashed away the tears from their eyes.  
  Richard then divided the contents of his purse into two equal portions, and presented one to
      Morcar. The gipsy positively refused to accept any thing beyond a few pieces of gold; but
      Markham was more positive still, and compelled him to assent to the equitable partition of the
      large sum which Eliza's bounty had supplied.  
  They then retired to rest.  
  At day-break Markham started up; but he looked in vain for Morcar.  
  On the table stood a pile of gold: it was the one which our hero had forced upon the
      gipsy;—and only two of the pieces had been taken from the heap.  
  "Generous man;" cried Markham: "God grant that I may one day be enabled to reward him for
      his fidelity and devotion to me!"  
  Having hastily dressed himself, our hero concealed about his person the few necessaries that
      were indispensable, and left the remainder in his valise.  
  He then descended to the coffee-room, hurried over a slight refreshment, and, having settled
      the account, took his departure, telling the landlord to keep the valise for him until his
      return.  
  But now how lonely, forlorn, and friendless did he feel, as he hurried away from the inn
      where he had parted with his faithful dependant!  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXIX.   THE JOURNEY.  
  Richard Markham struck into the fields, and pursued his way in a southerly direction.  
  He avoided even the small hamlets, and kept as much as possible in the open country.  
  Being unaware of the precise nature of the danger which menaced his life,—although of course
      connecting it with the part which he had recently played in the invasion,—he feared lest
      printed descriptions of his person, with rewards for his apprehension, might be circulated;
      and this source of terror induced him to choose the most secluded paths.  
  It was long after sunset when he stopped at a small country public-house, where he
      determined to rest for the night.  
  who never troubled himself about any one's business save his own.  
  A good supper and a bottle of very excellent wine tended to raise our hero's spirits: and
      when the meal was concluded, he fell into a train of meditation on the events of the preceding
      evening.  
  A thousand times did he ask himself who could be the occupant of that chaise which was
      journeying in such haste? for that there   was   some person inside the vehicle, who had
      urgent reasons for the utmost circumspection, the fact of the drawn blinds would not permit
      him to doubt. Moreover, the young   aide-de-camp   was evidently riding
         outside   for the purpose of answering any questions that might be put, paying the
      bills, directing the postillions, and in all respects acting with a view to save the person or
      persons inside from the necessity of giving their own orders.  
  The words—"  Terrible events have occurred at Montoni  "—were also fraught with a most
      menacing and mysterious importance. What could they mean? whom had these events endangered?
      Was it possible that the kindness of the Grand Duchess towards himself had been detected? And
      if so, what results could such a discovery have produced?  
  While he was thus lost in the most painful conjectures, a horseman suddenly galloped up to
      the door of the inn; and in a few moments the traveller himself entered the coffee-room.  
  He was a slightly-built, middle-aged man, with a good-humoured expression of countenance. He
      was attired in a kind of undress cavalry uniform, consisting of a foraging-cap with a broad
      gold band, a laced jacket, trousers with a red stripe down each leg, and a very small black
      leathern knapsack at his back.  
  "Now, landlord," he exclaimed, as he entered the room, followed by the individual whom he
      thus addressed, "some supper at once—not a moment's unnecessary delay—and see that a fresh
      horse is ready in twenty minutes. That is all the rest I can allow myself here."  
  The landlord bustled about to serve up the best his house could afford in such haste; and in
      the meantime the new-comer addressed himself to our hero.  
  "Rather chilly this evening, sir," he said.  
  "And yet you can scarcely feel the cold, considering the pace at which you appear to ride,"
      returned Richard with a smile.  
  "Egad! I do not ride so for pleasure, I can assure you," observed the man. "But I presume
      that you are travelling in this country for your amusement," he added: "for I perceive by your
      accent that you are not a Castelcicalan, and I can judge your avocation by that portfolio
      lying near you."  
  "You have guessed correctly," answered Richard. "Have you travelled far to-day?"  
  "A considerable distance. I am, as perhaps you may know by my dress, a government courier:
      and I am the bearer of dispatches from Montoni to the Captain-General of Montecuculi."  
  "Any thing new in the capital?" asked Richard, scarcely able to conceal the anxiety with
      which he waited for a reply.  
  "Great news," was the answer. "The Grand Duchess has fled."  
  "Fled!" ejaculated Markham.  
  "Yes—left the capital—gone no one knows where, and no one knows why," continued the courier.
      "Montoni is in a dreadful ferment. Martial law was proclaimed there the day before yesterday;
      and a tremendous crowd collected in the Palace-square in the evening. The military were called
      out, but refused to fire upon the people. Numerous conflicting reports are in circulation:
      some say that the Grand Duke has sent to demand the aid of an Austrian force. The people
      attacked the mansion of the Prime Minister; and the firmness of the Political Prefect alone
      prevented serious mischief. In fact, sir," added the courier, sinking his voice to a whisper,
      "we are on the eve of great events; and for my part—although I am in the government
      employment—I don't think it's treason to say that I would as soon serve Alberto as
      Angelo."  
  At that moment the landlord entered with a tray containing the courier's supper; and the
      conversation ceased. Nor had our hero an opportunity of reviving it; for the courier was too
      busily engaged with his knife and fork to utter a word during his meal; and the moment it was
      terminated, he wished Markham good night and took his departure.  
  Still our hero had gleaned enough to afford him some clue to the mystery of the post-chaise.
      The Grand Duchess had fled: the reason of her flight was not publicly known. Was it not
      probable that she was an occupant of the post-chaise which journeyed so swiftly? did not this
      idea receive confirmation from the fact that Mario Bazzano accompanied the vehicle?  
  Then again occurred the question, had the Grand Duchess involved herself in difficulty by
      her generosity towards him? The bare supposition of such an occurrence was the source of the
      most poignant anguish in the breast of Richard Markham.  
  He retired to rest; but his sleep was uneasy; and he awoke at an early hour, little
      refreshed. He was however compelled to pursue his melancholy journey, which he resumed with a
      heavy heart and with a mind oppressed by a thousand vague apprehensions.  
  There was one circumstance which especially afflicted him. He had not dared to write a
      letter to Isabella; and he knew that the tidings of the failure of the invasion would shortly
      reach her. Then what must be her feelings! She would believe that he had either fallen in the
      conflict, or was a prisoner in some Castelcicalan fortress; and he entertained so profound a
      conviction of her love for him,—a love as sincere as that which he experienced for her,—that
      he dreaded the effects which would be produced upon her by the most painful uncertainty or the
      worst apprehensions concerning his fate.  
  Still, how could he write to her with any hope that the letter would reach her? In the
      existing condition of Castelcicala, he felt persuaded that all correspondence addressed to
      Prince Alberto or any member of his family, would be intercepted. This conviction had hitherto
      prevented him from addressing a word to that charming girl whose image was ever present to his
      mind.  
  But as he journeyed wearily along, it suddenly struck him that he might write to
      Whittingham, and enclose a note for Isabella. Besides, he was also anxious to acquaint that
      faithful servant, as well as Mr. Monroe and Ellen, with the hopes that he entertained of being
      shortly enabled to return to his native land. He accordingly resolved to put this project into
      execution.  
  next night at a town where there was a post-office. He wrote his letters in the
      most guarded manner, and omitted the signature. When they were safely consigned to the
      letter-box, he felt as if a considerable load had been taken off his mind.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  At this town he gleaned a great deal of information concerning the agitated condition of the
      country. Martial law had been proclaimed in every province; and the worst fears existed as to
      the Grand Duke's ulterior views. The idea of Austrian intervention appeared to be general; and
      deep, though not loud, were the curses which were levelled against the policy of that
      sovereign who could venture to call in a foreign soldiery to rivet the shackles of slavery
      which he had imposed upon his subjects.  
  One circumstance peculiarly struck our hero: the Grand Duke seemed to possess no
      supporters—no apologists. The hatred excited by his tyranny was universal. Castelcicala only
      required a champion to stand forward—a leader to proclaim the cause of liberty—and Richard
      felt convinced that the whole nation would rise as one man against the despot.  
  That the Grand Duchess had fled precipitately from Montoni, was a fact now well known; but
      the motives and details of her departure were still veiled in the most profound mystery.  
  There was another circumstance which forced itself on Markham's observation: this was that
      the deepest sympathy existed in behalf of the prisoners who had been taken in the conflict
      near Ossore, and who, it seemed, had all been despatched to the fortress of Estella. Richard's
      prowess in rallying the troops also appeared to be well known; and on more occasions than one,
      during his wanderings in Castelcicala, did he find himself the object of the most flattering
      discourse, while those who eulogised him little suspected that the hero of their panegyric was
      so near.  
  But it is not our intention to follow him through those wanderings. Suffice it to say that
      he found his journey more wearisome than he had anticipated; and that he was frequently
      compelled to avail himself of a carrier's van along the by-roads, or to hire a horse, in order
      to diminish the fatigues of his wayfaring.  
  where he had parted with Morcar, that he crossed the river Usiglio at a ferry
      about four miles to the east of Pinalla.  
  He was now only forty miles from the Neapolitan frontier; and in twenty-four hours more he
      fondly hoped to be beyond the reach of danger.  
  He had partaken of but little refreshment during that day, for the nearer he approached the
      point where peril would cease and safety begin, the more anxious did he become.  
  Having crossed the ferry, he inquired of the boatman the way to the nearest inn. A dreary
      by-lane was pointed out to him, with an intimation that it would lead to a small public-house,
      at the distance of about a mile.  
  Richard pursued his way, and had proceeded about three hundred yards down the lane, which
      was shaded on either side by large chesnut-trees, when several individuals rushed upon him so
      suddenly that he had no time to offer any effectual resistance.  
  He, however, struggled desperately, as two of the banditti (for such his assailants were)
      attempted to bind his arms with cords.  
  But his endeavours to free himself from their grasp were vain and fruitless, and only
      provoked a rougher treatment at their hands; for one of the banditti drew a pistol from his
      belt, and with the butt-end of the weapon aimed a desperate blow at our hero's head.  
  Richard fell, bleeding and insensible, upon the ground.  
  When he opened his eyes again, he found himself lying in a comfortable bed.  
  Putting aside the damask-silk curtains, he glanced anxiously around the room, which was
      sumptuously furnished.  
  He fell back on his pillow, and strove to collect his scattered ideas. His head pained him:
      he raised his hand to his forehead, and found that it was bandaged.  
  Then the attack of the banditti in the dark lane flashed across his mind; and he
      mechanically thrust his hand into his bosom.  
  Alas! Armstrong's letter was gone!  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXX.   THE "BOOZING-KEN" ONCE MORE.  
  We must now direct our readers' attention for a short space to the parlour of the
      Boozing-Ken on Saffron Hill.  
  It was nine o'clock in the evening; and, as usual, a motley company was assembled in that
      place.  
  A dozen persons, men and women, were drinking the vile compounds which the landlord
      dispensed as "Fine Cordial Gin," "Treble X Ale," "Real Jamaica Rum," "Best Cognac Brandy," and
      "Noted Stout."  
  At one of the tables sate the Buffer, smoking a long clay pipe, and from time to time paying
      his respects to a pot of porter which stood before him. He occasionally glanced towards the
      clock as if he were expecting some one; and then an impatient but subdued curse rose to his
      lips, proving that the individual for whom he waited was behind his time.  
  "Well, as I was saying," exclaimed an old shabbily-dressed and dissipated looking man, who
      sate near the fire, "it's a burning shame to make people pay so dear for such liquor as
      this;"—and he made a quart-pot, which he held in his hand, describe sundry diminutive circles,
      in order to shake up the liquor whereat he gazed with disgust.  
  "Why do you drink it, then, friend Swiggs?" demanded the Buffer, in a surly tone. "You was
      once a licensed witler yourself: and I'll be bound no one ever doctored his lush more than you
      did."  
  "Of course I did!" ejaculated the old man. "The publican can't live without it. Look how
      he's taxed—look how the police preys upon him—look at the restrictions as to hours that he's
      subject to. I tell you the publican   must   adulterate his liquor—aye, even the most
      honest. But I don't like to drink it so, none the more for all that. Besides, this beer is so
      preciously done up, that one does not know whether there's most cocculus indicus or most
      tobacco-juice in it."  
  "What's cocculus indicus?" asked the Buffer.  
  "An Indian berry of so poisonous a nature," was the reply, "that the natives throw it into
      the ponds to render the fish insensible and make them float on the surface, when of course
      they are easily caught. That will show you the strength of it—ha! ha!"  
  And the old man chuckled with a sort of malignant triumph, as he recalled to mind his own
      practices when he was in business, and ere dissipation ruined him.  
  "Oh! I have the   Vintners' Guides   all by heart, I can assure you," continued Swiggs;
      "and now that I'm out of the business, and never likely to be in it again, I don't mind
      telling you a secret or two. Let us begin with the beer. In the first place the brewer
      adulterates it, to save his malt and hops; and then the publican adulterates it, to increase
      its quantity.   His   business is to make one butt of beer into two—aye, and sometimes
      three. Ha! ha! Now, how do you think he does it? He first deluges it with water: then, of
      course, it's so weak and flat that no one could possibly drink it. It wants alcohol, or spirit
      in it; it wants the bitter flavour; it wants pungency; it wants age; and it wants froth. All
      these are supplied by means of adulteration. Cocculus indicus, henbane, opium, and Bohemian
      rosemary are used instead of alcohol: these are all poisons; and the Bohemian rosemary is of
      so deadly a nature, that a small sprig produces a raving intoxication. Ha! ha! that's good so
      far! Then aloes, quassia, wormwood, and gentian supply the place of hops, and give bitterness
      to the hell-broth. Ginger, cassia-buds, and capsicum, produce pungency. Treacle,
      tobacco-juice, and burnt sugar give it colour. Oil of vitriol not only makes it transparent,
      but also imparts to it the taste of age; so that a butt so doctored immediately seems to be
      two years old. I needn't tell you what sort of a poison oil of vitriol is: I don't want to
      suggest the means of suicide—ha! ha! But when the brew has gone so far, it wants the
      heading—that froth, you know, which you all fancy to be a proof of good beer. Alum, copperas,
      and salt of tartar will raise you as nice a heading as ever you'd wish to dip your lips
      in."  
  "You don't mean to say all that's true, Swiggs?" exclaimed the Buffer; "for though I ain't
      partickler, I don't think I shall ever like porter again."  
  stuff you lap up so pleasantly, and pay for as   beer  . What do you think
      of extract of poppies, coriander, nux vomica, black extract, Leghorn juice, and bitter beans?
      But all these names are Greek to you. They ain't to the publicans, though—ha! ha! Why half the
      poor people that go to lunatic asylums, are sent there by the poison called beer."  
  "What have you got to say agin blue ruin, old feller?" demanded a Knacker, who was regaling
      himself with a glass of gin-and-water.  
  "Blue ruin—gin!" cried the old man. "Ah! I can tell you something about that too. Oil of
      vitriol is the chief ingredient: it has the pungency and smell of gin. When you take the cork
      out of a bottle of   pure gin  , it will never make your eyes water: but the oil of
      vitriol   will  . Ha! ha! there's a test for you. Try it! Oil of turpentine, sulphuric
      æther, and oil of almonds are used to conceal the vitriol in the made-up gin. What is called
         Fine Cordial Gin   is the most adulterated of all: it is concocted expressly for
      dram-drinkers—ha! ha!"  
  "Rum, I should think, is the best of all the spirits," said the Buffer.  
  "Because you like it best, perhaps?" exclaimed the old man. "Ha! ha! you don't know that the
         Fine Jamaica Rum   is nothing else but the vile low-priced Leeward Island rum, which
      is in itself a stomach-burning fire-water of the deadliest quality, and which is mixed by the
      publican with cherry-laurel water and   devil  ."  
  "What's   devil  ?" asked the Knacker.  
  "Aye, what is it, indeed? It's nothing but chili pods infused in oil of vitriol—that's all!
      But now for   Best Cognac Brandy  ," continued the old man. "Do you think the brandy sold
      under that name ever saw France—ever crossed the sea? Not it! Aqua ammonia, saffron, mace,
      extract of almond cake, cherry-laurel water,   devil  , terra japonica, and spirits of
      nitre, make up the brandy when the British spirit has been well deluged with water. That's
      your brandy! Ha! ha!"  
  "What a precious old sinner you must be, Swiggs," said one of the company, "if you used to
      make up such poisons as you're now talking about."  
  "Dare say I was—dare say I was," observed the old man, composedly. "Nearly every publican
      does the same, I tell you. Those who don't, go into the   Gazette  —that's all. Ha!
      ha! But if the poor are cheated and poisoned in that way, how do you think the middle classes
      and rich ones are served! Shall I tell you any thing about wine—eh?"  
  "Yes—do," cried several voices. "Let's hear how the swell cove is served out."  
  "Well, I'll tell you that too," continued the old man. "There's hundreds of
         Wine-Guides   that contain instructions for the merchants, and vintners, and
      publicans. Take a bottle of cheap Port wine, and get a chemist to analyse it: he'll tell you
      it contains three ounces of spirits of wine, fourteen ounces of cyder, one ounce and a half of
      sugar, two scruples of alum, one scruple of tartaric acid, and four ounces of strong decoction
      of logwood. That's the way I used to make   my   Port wine. Not a drop—not a single drop
      of the juice of the grape. Ha! ha! Families bought it wholesale—three-and-sixpence the
      bottle—rank poison! Ha! ha! Nearly all fictitious wines possess too high a colour—particularly
      sherry: the way to make such wine pale is to put a quart of warm sheep's blood in the butt,
      and, when it's quite fine, to draw it off. I always did that—but I didn't tell the families
      so, though! Which do you think is the greatest cheat of all the cheap wines?—the Cape. The
      publicans sell it at eighteen-pence and two shillings. Why—it's nothing more than the
      drippings from the casks, the filterings of the lees, and all the spoiled white wines that
      happen to be in the cellar, mixed together with rum-cowe and cyder, and fined with sheep's
      blood."  
  "I'm glad to hear the rich is humbugged as well as the poor," observed the Knacker: "that's
      a consolation, at any rate."  
  "So it is," said a cat's-meat man, nodding his head approvingly.  
  "Humbugged!" ejaculated Swiggs, triumphantly: "I b'lieve you! I'll tell you how two-thirds
      of all the Port wine drunk in the United Kingdom is made:—Take four gallons of cyder, two
      quarts of the juice of red beet-root, two quarts of brandy, four ounces of logwood, half a
      pound of bruised rhatany root, and one ounce of alum: first infuse the logwood and rhatany
      root in the brandy and a gallon of the cyder for ten days; then strain off the liquor and mix
      all the other ingredients with it; put it into a cask, keep it for a month, and it will be fit
      to bottle. Not a drop of grape-juice there. Ha! ha! If the colour isn't quite right, an
      infusion of raspings of red sandars wood in spirits of wine will soon give it a beautiful red
      complexion. But then the bees'-wing. Ha! the bees'-wing—eh! A saturated solution of cream of
      tartar, coloured with Brazil-wood or cochineal, will give the best crust and bees'-wing you
      can imagine. There's for you! Port made in a month or six weeks can be passed off for wine ten
      or a dozen years old. The corks can easily be stained to indicate age—and who's to discover
      the cheat? Nobody but the chemist—ha! ha!"  
  "Well, I've learnt someot to-night," said the Knacker.  
  "Learnt something! You know nothing about it yet," cried the old man, who was on his
      favourite topic. "You don't know what poison—rank poison—there is in all these cheap
      wines;—aye, and in the dear ones too, for that matter. Sugar of lead is a chief ingredient! I
      needn't tell you that sugar of lead is a deadly poison: any fool knows that. Sal enixum and
      slaked lime are used to clear muddy wine; and litharge gives a sweet taste to wines that are
      too acid. Bitter almonds imparts to port a nutty flavour; cherry-laurel water gives it a
      bouquet; and tincture of raisin seeds endows it with a grapy taste—which it hasn't got and
      can't have otherwise. But I've told you enough for to-night. And now I dare say you wonder why
      I drink beer or spirits at all? Because I am old and miserable; because I am poor and
      wretched; because I must kill care somehow or another; and therefore I take daily doses of
      those slow poisons."  
  With these words the old man rose, and shuffled out of the room.  
  His denunciation of the abominable system of doctoring wines, spirits, and malt liquors
      produced a gloomy effect upon the company whom he left behind. The Buffer glanced often and
      often towards the clock: the time was passing rapidly; and yet the person for whom he was
      waiting came not.  
  "Who'll tip us a song?" said the Knacker, glancing around.  
  "There's Jovial Jenkins up in the corner there," exclaimed the cat's-meat man. "He's the
      chap for a song."  
  "Well, I don't mind, pals," cried a diminutive specimen of the male sex, dressed
      in a suit of clothes every way too large for him. "What shall I sing yer? Oh! I s'pose it must
      be the favourite—eh? Come—here goes, then."  
  And in another minute the parlour of the boozing-ken reverberated with the intonations of
      the following strange song:—  
  
    THE MAN OF MANY PURSUITS.    
  Come, lip us a chant, pals! Why thus mum your dubber!  
  My gropus clinks coppers, and I'll fake the rubber:  
  Here's a noggin of lightning to slacken your glib;—  
  Then pass round the lush, and cease napping the bib.  
  T'other night we'd a precious rum squeeze at the Spell,  
  And, togg'd as a yokel, I used my forks well;  
  From a Rum-Tom-Pat's kickseys I knapp'd a green twitch,  
  And nearly got off the gold glims from his snitch.  
  But a swell with hock-dockeys and silken gam-cases,  
  Put the parish prig up to the rig of such places;—  
  So, finding the nib-cove was chanting the play,  
  I shov'd my trunk nimbly and got clean away.  
   As a jolly gay-tyke-boy I sometimes appear,  
  And chirp for the curs that are spelt in the leer;  
  Or as a leg-glazier, with fadger and squibs,  
  I work my way into the nibsomest cribs.  
  But when on these dodges the blue-bottles blow,  
  As a flue-flaker togg'd then at day-break I show:  
  And though from the slavey I get but a flag,  
  I can fly the blue-pigeon and thus bank the rag.  
  Sometimes as a mabber I dose the swell fred;—  
  Or else as a vamper I mill for a ned;  
  And as soon as my man is tripp'd by the gams,  
  A pal knaps his ticker, or frisks off his flamms.  
  But the life that I love is in Swell-street to shine,  
  With a Mounseer-fak'd calp, and my strummel all fine,  
  Heater-cases well polish'd, and lully so white,  
  And an upper ben fitting me jaunty and tight.  
  Then with nice silk rain-napper, or gold-headed dick,  
  I plunge neck and heels into sweet river-tick;  
  And if in a box of the stone-jug I get,  
  Though hobbled for macing, 'twill prove but a debt.  
  Then lip us a chant, pals! Why thus mum your dubber?  
  My gropus clinks coppers, and I'll fake the rubber:  
  A noggin of lightning will slacken our glib;  
  So pass round the lush, and let none nap the bib.    target="#ENG18460_N112"/   
  "Brayvo, Jovial Jen!" shouted the inmates of the boozing-ken parlour.  
  "You're the prince of good fellers at a spree," said the Knacker: "and I'll stand a quartern
      of blue ruin and two outs, in spite o' what old Swiggs said of the lush."  
  The promised treat was called, paid for, and disposed of.  
  Scarcely had the applause, which greeted this song, terminated, when the door opened, and
      Lafleur, Mr. Greenwood's French valet, entered the room.  
  He was disguised in a large rough coat and slouched hat; but the Buffer immediately
      recognised his countenance, and hurried to meet him.  
  "You're late," said the Buffer, in a low tone.  
  "Yes—I could not come before," answered the valet. "But I knew that you would wait for me,
      as I told you yesterday that the business was important."  
  "Well, we can't talk here," observed the Buffer. "There's a snug room up-stairs
      devoted to them that's got private business: and I'll show you the way."  
  The Buffer left the parlour, followed by Lafleur, whom he conducted to a private apartment
      on the first floor. A bottle of wine was ordered; and when the waiter had withdrawn, the
      Buffer made a sign for his companion to explain the object of the interview.  
  "You know very well that I am in the service of Mr. Greenwood, the Member of Parliament?"
      began Lafleur.  
  "Yes—me and two pals once did a little job for him on the Richmond road," answered the
      Buffer.  
  "You mean the affair of the robbery of Count Alteroni?" said Lafleur.  
  "Well—I do, since you know it. Does your master tell you all his secrets?" demanded the
      Buffer.  
  "No—no," was the reply; and the Frenchman gave a sly laugh. "But he can't very well prevent
      me listening at the door of his room, when he's engaged with people on particular business. I
      know enough to ruin him for ever."  
  "So much the better for you. There's nothing like being deep in one's master's secrets: it
      gives you a hold on him."  
  "Let us talk of the present business," said Lafleur. "Are you the man to do a small robbery
      on the Dover road, as skilfully as you helped to do it on the Richmond road?"  
  "I'm the man to do any thing for fair reglars," answered the Buffer. "Go on."  
  "I will explain myself in a few words," continued Lafleur. "By dint of listening at doors
      and looking over my master's papers when he was out, I have made a grand discovery. To-morrow
      evening Greenwood leaves town in a post-chaise and four for Dover. It seems that he has
      embarked in some splendid speculation with a house in Paris, and the success of it depends on
      influencing the rates of exchange between English and French money. He will take with him
      twenty thousand pounds in gold and Bank of England notes to effect this purpose."  
  "Never mind the rigmarole of the reasons," said the Buffer; "for I don't understand them no
      more than the Queen does the papers she signs, they say, by dozens and dozens at a
      sitting."  
  "It is sufficient, then, for   you   to know that Mr. Greenwood will leave London
      to-morrow evening with twenty thousand pounds, in a post-chaise," proceeded Lafleur. "His
      Italian valet and myself are to accompany him; and we are all to be well armed."  
  "What sort of a feller is your Italian wally?" demanded the Buffer.  
  "Not one of our sort," replied Lafleur; "he will do his duty to his master, although I don't
      think he has any very great love for him."  
  "Greenwood believes you to be stanch also, s'pose?"  
  "Of course he does. I shall have to see that his master's pistols are in proper order, and
      place them in the chaise; but the Italian will take care of his own. There will, consequently,
      only be   one pair   loaded with ball."  
  "I understand you," said the Buffer. "Still that one pair of pistols may send two good chaps
      to Davy Jones."  
  "Risk nothing, get nothing," observed Lafleur. "The chances are that Filippo and I shall
      ride together on the dickey: if so, the moment the horses are stopped, I shall have nothing
      more or less to do than turn suddenly on Filippo and prevent him from doing any mischief."  
  "So far, so good," said the Buffer. "But I ought to have at least three pals with me.
      Remember, there's two postillions; Greenwood himself won't part with his tin without a
      struggle; and Filippo, as you call him, might master you."  
  "Can you get three men as resolute as yourself to accompany you?" asked Lafleur.  
  "The notice is so deuced short," returned the Buffer; "but I think I can reckon on two. Long
      Bob and the Lully Prig," he added, in a musing tone, "are certain to jine in."  
  "Three of you will scarcely be sufficient," said Lafleur. "Only think of the sum that's at
      stake: we mustn't risk the loss of it by any want of precaution on our parts."  
  "Well—I must see," cried the Buffer. "It isn't that I don't know a many chaps in my line;
      but the thing is to get one that we're sure on—that won't peach either afore or arterwards.
      Ah! I lost my best pal in Tony Tidkins—poor feller!"  
  "The Resurrection Man, you mean?" said Lafleur.  
  "The same. Greenwood was a good patron of his'n," observed the Buffer; "but that wouldn't
      have perwented him from jining in along with me."  
  "I remember that Greenwood wanted Tidkins for some business or another nearly a year ago,"
      said the French valet; "and he sent me with a note to him at this very place. He did not,
      however, come; but I called here a few days afterwards, and heard that he had received the
      letter."  
  "That was just about the time poor Tidkins was desperately wounded by Crankey Jem," said the
      Buffer, rather speaking to himself than to his companion; "and circumstances forced him to
      keep deuced close arterwards. But that's neither here nor there: let's talk on our own
      business. Leave me to get a proper number of pals; and now answer me a question or two. At
      what time does Greenwood intend to start?"  
  "At seven o'clock. He means to get to Dover so as to have a few hours' sleep before the
      packet leaves for Calais."  
  "Then the business mustn't be done this side of Chatham," said the Buffer: "it would be too
      early. There's a nice lonely part of the road, I remember, between Newington and
      Sittingbourne, with a chalk pit near, where we can divide the swag, and each toddle off in
      different directions arterwards. The chaise will reach that place about ten. Now, one more
      question:—where will the blunt be stowed away?"  
  "Under the seat inside, no doubt," answered Lafleur. "Then I may consider the business
      agreed upon between us?"  
  "As good as done, almost," said the Buffer.  
  At this moment the conversation was interrupted by a knock at the door.  
  The waiter entered, and whispered something to the Buffer.  
  "By God, how fortunate!" ejaculated this individual, his countenance suddenly assuming an
      expression of the most unfeigned joy. "Show him up—this minute!"  
  The waiter disappeared.  
  "Who is it?" demanded Lafleur.  
  "The very person we are in want of! He has turned up again:—that feller has as many lives as
      a cat."  
  "But who is it?" repeated Lafleur impatiently.  
  Before the Buffer could answer the question, the door was thrown open, and the Resurrection
      Man entered the room.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXI.   THE RESURRECTION MAN AGAIN.  
  Anthony Tidkins was dressed in a most miserable manner; and his whole appearance denoted
      poverty and privation. He was thin and emaciated; his eyes were sunken; his cheeks hollow; and
      his entire countenance more cadaverous and ghastly than ever.  
  "My dear fellow," cried the Buffer, springing forward to meet him; "how glad I am to see you
      again. I really thought as how you was completely done for."  
  "And no thanks to you that I wasn't," returned the Resurrection Man gruffly. "Didn't you
      leave me to die like a dog in the plague-ship?"  
  "I've been as sorry about that there business, Tony, ever since it happened, as one can well
      be," said the Buffer: "but if you remember the hurry and bustle of the sudden panic that came
      over us, I'm sure you won't harbour no ill-feeling."  
  "Well, well—the least said, the soonest's mended," growled the Resurrection Man, taking his
      friend's hand. "Holloa, Lafleur! What are you doing here?"  
  "Business—business, Mr. Tidkins," answered the valet; "and you're the very man we are in
      want of."  
  "The very man," echoed the Buffer. "I give up the command of the expedition to him: he's my
      old captain."  
  "In the first place, order me up some grub and a pint of brandy," said the Resurrection Man;
      "for I've been precious short of every thing at all decent in the eating or drinking way of
      late;—and while I refresh myself with some supper, you can tell me what new scheme there is in
      the wind. Of course I'm your man, if there's any good to be done."  
  The waiter was summoned: Lafleur ordered him to bring up the entire contents of the larder,
      together with a bottle of brandy; and when these commands were obeyed, the Resurrection Man
      fell to work with extraordinary voracity, while the French valet briefly explained to him the
      nature of the business already propounded to the Buffer.  
  The hopes of obtaining a considerable sum of money animated the eyes of Tidkins with fire
      and his cadaverous countenance with a glow of fiendish satisfaction. He highly approved of the
      idea of engaging the Lully Prig and Long Bob in the enterprise; for he entertained a good
      opinion of their courage, in spite of the affair of the plague-ship. Indeed, he could well
      understand the invincible nature of the panic-terror which had seized upon them on that
      occasion; and, as he foresaw that their co-operation would be valuable in other matters, he
      was disposed to forget the past.  
  In fine, all the preliminary arrangements were made with Lafleur, who presented the two
      villains each with a ten pound-note as an earnest of his sincerity, and then took his
      departure.  
  When the Resurrection Man and the Buffer were alone together, they brewed themselves strong
      glasses of brandy and water, lighted their pipes, and naturally began to discourse on what had
      passed since they last saw each other.  
  The Buffer related all that had occurred to him after his return to Mossop's wharf,—how he
      had been pursued by the three men belonging to the   Blossom  ,—how one turned out to be
      Richard Markham, another a policeman in disguise, and the third Morcar,—how they had vainly
      searched the   Fairy   to discover Anthony Tidkins,—and how he himself eventually sold
      the lighter.  
  "Since then," added the Buffer, "I have not been doing much, and was deuced glad when
      Greenwood's valet came to me last evening and made an appointment with me for to-night to talk
      upon some business of importance. You know what that business is; and I hope it will turn up a
      trump—that's all."  
  "Then the whole affair of the   Blossom   was a damnation plant?" cried the
      Resurrection Man, gnashing his teeth with rage. "And that hated Markham was at the bottom of
      it all? By the thunders of heaven, I'll have the most deadly vengeance! But how came you to
      learn that Morcar was one of the three?"  
  "Because I heard Markham call him by that name when they all boarded the   Fairy  ; and
      I instantly remembered the gipsy that you had often spoken about. But what do you think? He
      was the Black—the counterfeit Brummagem scoundrel that could neither speak nor hear. The
      captain was the blue-bottle; and Markham, I s'pose, had kept down below during the time the
         Blossom   was at Mossop's. It was a deuced good scheme of theirs; and if you hadn't
      been left in the plague-ship, it might have gone precious hard with you."  
  "Well said, Jack," observed the Resurrection Man. "Out of evil sometimes comes good, as the
      parsons say. But that shan't prevent me from doing Master Richard Markham a turn yet."  
  "You must go to Italy, then," said the Buffer laconically.  
  "What gammon's that?" demanded Tidkins.  
  "Why, I happened yesterday morning to look at a newspaper in the parlour down stairs, and
      there I read of a battle which took place in some country with a cursed hard name in Italy,
      about three weeks ago; and what should I see but a long rigmarole about the bravery of
       '  our gallant fellow-countryman, Mr. Richard Markham  ,' and '  the great delight it
       would be to all the true friends of freedom to learn that he was not retained amongst the
       prisoners'  ."  
  "But perhaps he was killed in the battle, the scoundrel?" said the Resurrection Man.  
  "No, he wasn't," answered the Buffer; "for the moment I saw that all this nonsense was about
      him, I read the whole article through; and I found that he   had   been taken prisoner,
      but had either been let go or had made his escape. No one, however, seems to know what's
      become of him;—so p'r'aps he's on his way back to this country."  
  "I'd much sooner he'd get hanged or shot in Italy," said the Resurrection Man. "But if he
      ever does come home again, I'll be square with him—and no mistake."  
  Tony," exclaimed the Buffer, "have the kindness to tell us how you got out of
      that cursed scrape in the   Lady Anne  ."  
  "I will," said the Resurrection Man, refilling his glass. "After you all ran away in that
      cowardly fashion, I tried to climb after you; but I fell back insensible. When I awoke, the
      broad day-light was shining overhead; and a boy was looking down at me from the deck. He asked
      me what I was doing there. I rose with great difficulty; but I was much refreshed with the
      long sleep I had enjoyed. The boy disappeared; and in a few minutes the surgeon came and
      hailed me down the hatchway. I begged him to help me up out of the hold, and I would tell him
      every thing. He ordered me to throw aside my pistols and cutlass, and he would assist me to
      gain the deck. I did as he commanded me. He and the boy then lowered a rope, with a noose; I
      put my foot in the noose, grasped the rope tight, and was hauled up. The surgeon instantly
      presented a pistol, and said, '  If you attempt any violence, I'll shoot you through the
       head  .' I declared that nothing was farther from my intention, and begged him to give me
      some refreshment. This request was complied with; and I then felt so much better, that I was
      able to walk with comparative ease. It, however, seemed as if I had just recovered from a long
      illness: for I was weak, and my head was giddy. I told the surgeon that I was an honest
      hard-working man; that I had come down to Gravesend the day before to see a friend; and had
      fallen in with some persons who offered me a job for which I should be well paid; that I
      assented, and accompanied them to their boat; that when I understood the nature of their
      business, I declared I would have nothing more to do with it; that they swore they would blow
      my brains out if I made any noise; that I was compelled to board the ship with them; that when
      some sudden sound alarmed them as they were examining the goods in the hold, they knocked me
      down with the butt-end of a pistol; and that I remembered nothing more until the boy awoke me
      by calling out to me from the deck. The surgeon believed my story, and said, '  A serious
       offence has been perpetrated, and you must declare all you know of the matter before a
       magistrate  .' I of course signified my willingness to do so, because I saw that the only
      chance of obtaining my liberty was by gaining the good opinion of the surgeon; for he had a
      loaded pistol in his hand—I was unarmed—and the police-boat was within hail. '  But,
       according to the quarantine laws  ,' continued the surgeon, '  you cannot be permitted
       to leave the vessel for the present; and what guarantee have I for your good behaviour while
       you are on board  ?'"  
  "That was a poser," observed the Buffer.  
  "No such thing," said the Resurrection Man. "I spoke with so much apparent sincerity, and
      with such humility, that I quite gained the surgeon's good opinion. I said, '  You can lock
       me in your cabin during the day, sir; or you can bind my hands with cords; and, at night, I
       can sleep in the hold from which you released me, with the hatches battened
       down  .'—'  I really do believe you to be an honest man  ,' exclaimed the surgeon;
       '  but I must adopt some precaution. You shall be at large during the day; and I think it
       right to give you due notice that I carry loaded pistols constantly with me. At night you
       shall sleep in the hold, with the hatches battened down, as you say.  ' I affected to
      thank him very sincerely for his kindness in leaving me at liberty during the day; and he then
      repaired to the fore-cabin to attend to his patients."  
  "Hadn't he got the plague himself?" inquired the Buffer.  
  "No: but the fœtid atmosphere of the fore-cabin, to which he was compelled so frequently to
      expose himself, had made him as emaciated and as pale as if he had only just recovered from
      the malady. I got into conversation with the boy, and found that he had contrived, shortly
      after you and the others decamped, to free his arms from the cords with which we had bound
      him; and that his first care was to release the surgeon. They neither of them entertained the
      remotest suspicion that any of the pirates were left in the ship, until the boy discovered me
      in the hold shortly after day-break."  
  "Well—and how did you escape after all?"  
  "I remained three or four days on board, before I put any scheme into force, although I
      planned a great many. At night I could do nothing, because I was a prisoner in the hold; and
      during the day the police-boat was constantly about, besides the sentinels on land. The
      surgeon always made me go down into the hold while it was still day-light; and never let me
      out again until after sunrise; so that I was always in confinement during the very time that I
      might contrive something to effect my escape from that infernal pest-ship. But the surgeon
      seemed afraid to trust me when it was dark. I never passed such a miserable time in my life.
      The slight touch that I had experienced of the plague—for it could have been nothing else—kept
      me in a constant fear lest it should return with increased force. How often did I mutter the
      most bitter curses against you and the other pals for abandoning me;—but now, in consequence
      of what you told me of the plant that Markham had set a-going against me, I am not sorry to
      think that I was left behind in the plague-ship. One evening—I think it was the fifth after my
      first entrance into the vessel—I observed that it was growing darker and darker; and yet the
      surgeon did not appear on deck with his loaded pistol to send me below. The boy was walking
      about eyeing me suspiciously; and at length he went down into the after-cabin. It struck me
      that the surgeon was probably indulging in a nap, and that the lad would awake him. It was not
      quite dark; but still I fancied that it was dusk enough to leap from the bow of the ship,
      which part of the vessel was high and dry, without alarming the sentinels on shore. At all
      events the chance was worth the trial. Seizing a handspike, I hurried forward, and sprang from
      the ship. Then, without losing a moment, I ran along the bank towards Gravesend, as rapidly as
      I could. In a short time I knew that I was safe. I hurled the handspike into the Thames, and
      walked on to the   Lobster Tavern  . There I obtained a bed—for I had plenty of ready
      money in my pocket. My only regret was that I had not been able to bring away any of the
      gold-dust with me."  
  "Why didn't you knock the surgeon and the boy on the head, and help yourself?" demanded the
      Buffer.  
  of an evening, or called up of a morning, that there wasn't a shadow of a chance.
      Well, I slept at the   Lobster Tavern  , and departed very early in the morning—long
      before it was day-light. I thought that London would be too hot for me, after every thing that
      had lately occurred; and I resolved to pay a visit to Walmer—my own native place. I was still
      too weak to walk many miles without resting; and so I took nearly four days to reach Walmer.
      Besides, I kept to the fields, and avoided the high road as much as possible. I took up my
      quarters at a small inn on the top of Walmer hill, and then made inquiries concerning all the
      people I had once known in or about the village. I have often related the former incidents of
      my life to you; and you will therefore recollect the baronet who was exchequered for
      smuggling, and was welcomed with open arms by his friends, when he paid the fine. You also
      remember all that occurred between him and me. I found that he had married his cook-maid, who
      ruled him with a rod of iron; and that the '  very select society  ' of Walmer and Deal
      had all cut him on account of that connexion, which was much worse in their eyes than all the
      smuggling in which he had been engaged. In fact, he was a hero when prosecuted for smuggling;
      but now   no decent persons could associate with him  , since he had married his
      scullion. In a word, I learnt that he was as miserable as I could have wished him to be."  
  "And didn't you inquire after your friend the parson?" demanded the Buffer.  
  "You may be sure I did," returned the Resurrection Man. "He had made himself very
      conspicuous for refusing the sacrament to a young woman who was seduced by her lover, and had
      an illegitimate child; and the '  select society  ' of Walmer greatly applauded him for
      his conduct. At length, about a year ago, it appears, this most particular of all clergymen
      was discovered by a neighbouring farmer in too close a conversation with the said farmer's
      wife; and his reverence was compelled to decamp, no one knows where. He, however, left his
      wife and children to the public charity. That charity was so great, that the poor woman and
      family are now inmates of the very workhouse where his reverence's slightest wish was once a
      law. I stayed at Walmer for nearly a week; and then departed suddenly for Ramsgate, with the
      contents of the landlord's till in my pocket. At Ramsgate I put up at a small public-house
      where I was taken dreadfully ill. For four months I was confined to my bed; and both landlord
      and landlady were very kind to me. At length I slowly began to recover; and, when I was well
      enough to walk abroad, I used to go upon the beach to inhale the sea-air. It was then
      summertime; and bathing was all the rage. I never was more amused in my life than to see the
      ladies, old as well as young, sitting on the beach, to all appearance deeply buried in the
      novels which they held in their hands, but in reality watching, with greedy eyes, the men
      bathing scarcely fifty yards off."  
  "You don't mean to say that?" cried the Buffer.  
  "I do indeed, though," returned Tidkins. "It was the commonest thing in the world for
      elderly dames and young misses to go out walking along the beach, or to sit down on it, close
      by the very spot where the men bathed, although there were plenty of other places to choose
      either for rambling or reading. Well, I stayed two more months at Ramsgate; and as the
      landlord and landlady of the public-house had behaved so kind to me, I took nothing from them
      when I went away. I merely left my little account unsettled. I walked over to Margate, with
      the intention of taking the steamer to London Bridge; but just as I was stepping on the jetty,
      some one tapped me on the shoulder, and, turning round, I beheld my landlord of the little inn
      on the top of Walmer hill. All my excuses, promises, and entreaties were of no avail: the man
      collared me—a crowd collected—a constable was sent for, and I was taken before a magistrate.
      Of course I was committed for trial, and sent across in a cart to Canterbury gaol. There I lay
      till the day before yesterday, when the sessions came on. By some extraordinary circumstance
      or another, no prosecutor appeared before the Grand Jury; and I was discharged. I resolved to
      come back to London;—for, after all, London is the place for business in our way. With all its
      police, it's the best scene for our labours. So here I am; and the moment I set foot in this
      ken, I find employment waiting for me."  
  "Well, I'm sorry to hear you've been lumbered, old feller," cried the respectable Mr. John
      Wicks; "but it's a blessin' the prosecutor never come for'ard. Let's, however, think of the
      present; and botheration to the past. I'm heartily glad you've turned up again. I was precious
      nigh going into mourning for you, Tony. Joking apart, though—this business of the Frenchman's
      looks well; and we must be about early to look after the Lully Prig and Long Bob. I know their
      haunts down by Execution Dock, just opposite to Mossop's."  
  "Where are you hanging out now, Jack?" inquired the Resurrection Man.  
  "Me and Moll has got a room in Greenhill's Rents—at the bottom of Saint John's Street, you
      know," was the answer.  
  "Well, I shall sleep here to-night," said the Resurrection Man; "and by six o'clock
      to-morrow morning I shall expect you."  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXII.   MR. GREENWOOD'S JOURNEY.  
  It was six o'clock on the evening following the incidents related in the two preceding
      chapters.  
  Mr. Greenwood had just concluded an early dinner (early for him) after having devoted the
      greater part of the day to business in the City, and a small portion of it to his fair
      Georgian, for whom he had taken elegantly furnished apartments in Suffolk Street, Pall
      Mall.  
  Having disposed of his last glass of champagne, the honourable member for Rottenborough rang
      the bell.  
  Lafleur made his appearance.  
  "Is the chaise ordered for seven precisely?" inquired Mr. Greenwood.  
  "Yes, sir—seven precisely, sir," answered the valet.  
  "Did you write to my agent at Rottenborough to tell him that I should pass through that town
      at half-past eight, and that although I wished to preserve a strict incognito, yet I should
      not mind being recognised while the horses are changing at the inn?"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I mentioned all that, sir," replied Lafleur; "and I suggested that he had better get
      together a hundred or so of persons in the tap-room, to be ready to rush out and cheer
      you."  
  "That was well thought of, Lafleur. I have already sent a paragraph to the morning newspaper
      in which I am a shareholder, stating that I was enthusiastically cheered as I passed through
      Rottenborough. It will appear to-morrow morning. Have you renewed my positive orders to the
      policeman on this beat to take all beggars into custody who are found loitering near my
      door?"  
  "I have, sir. One woman, with three whimpering children, was dragged off to the
      station-house half an hour ago, for looking too earnestly down the area windows," said
      Lafleur. "Her husband has just been to beg you to intercede with the Inspector for her
      release. He said he was a hard-working man, and that it must be a mistake, as his wife was no
      beggar."  
  "And what did you say, Lafleur?" demanded Mr. Greenwood, sternly.  
  "I said nothing, sir: I merely banged the door in his face."  
  "That was right and proper. I am determined to put down vagrancy. Nothing is more offensive
      to the eye than those crawling wretches who are perpetually dinning in one's ears a long tale
      about their being half-starved."  
  "Yes, sir—it is very disagreeable, sir," observed Lafleur.  
  "The free and independent electors of Rottenborough have not sent me to Parliament for
      nothing, I can assure you," continued Mr. Greenwood.  
  "No, sir," responded Lafleur.  
  "And I, from my place in the House, will denounce this odious system of mendicancy," added
      Mr. Greenwood.  
  "Yes, sir," observed Lafleur.  
  "By-the-by, did you send the letter I gave you just now to the post?"  
  The valet answered in the affirmative.  
  it's something of the kind;—and as he has sent a circular to all persons whose
      names are in the   Court Guide  , soliciting subscriptions, I cannot, of course,
      refuse to contribute my mite of five pounds to the pious work—especially as the list of
      subscribers is to be advertised in the principal London and provincial papers. We must support
      the Church, Lafleur."  
  "Yes, sir—decidedly, sir," observed the valet.  
  "What would become of us without the Church?" continued Mr. Greenwood. "It is the source
      from which flow all the blessings of Christian love, hope, benevolence, and charity. Hark!
      Lafleur, I do really believe there is a woman singing a ballad in the street! Run out and give
      her into custody this minute."  
  "Beg your pardon, sir," said the valet: "it's only the muffin-boy."  
  "Oh! that's different," observed Mr. Greenwood, rising from his seat. "The chaise will be
      here at seven, you say?"  
  "Yes, sir."  
  "You and Filippo will accompany me. Tell Filippo to see that his fire-arms are in good
      order; and do you attend to mine as well as your own. Not that I apprehend any danger on such
      a road as that on which we are about to travel; still it is better to be prepared."  
  "Decidedly, sir," answered Lafleur, not a muscle of his countenance betraying any
      extraordinary emotion.  
  "Take a lamp to my study," said Greenwood; "and then go and see about the fire-arms. Let my
      case of pistols be put inside the chaise."  
  "Yes, sir;"—and Lafleur was about to leave the room, when he suddenly recollected himself,
      and said, "If you please, sir, your boot-maker sent your new slippers this morning, wrapped up
      in a piece of the   Weekly Dispatch  . I thought I had better mention it, sir."  
  "By God, you have done well to acquaint me with this infamy, Lafleur!" cried Mr. Greenwood,
      desperately excited. "The scoundrel! he reads the   Dispatch  , does he?—the
      journal that possesses more influence over the masses than even pulpits, governments,
      sovereigns, or religious tracts! The villain! I always thought that man was a democrat at
      heart; because one day when I told him if he didn't vote for the Tory Churchwarden he would
      lose my custom, he smiled—yes, smiled! And so he reads the   Dispatch  —the
      people's journal—the vehicle of all argument against our blessed constitution—the champion to
      which all who fancy themselves oppressed, fly as naturally as bees to flowers! Lafleur," added
      Mr. Greenwood, solemnly, "you will send to that boot-maker, and tell him to show his face no
      more at the house of the Member for Rottenborough."  
  "Yes, sir."  
  And Lafleur left the room.  
  A few minutes afterwards Mr. Greenwood repaired to his study, where the lamp had already
      been placed upon the table.  
  He then opened his iron safe, and drew forth a large canvass bag full of sovereigns. This he
      consigned to a tin box, resembling those in which lawyers keep their clients' papers. Three
      more bags, of the same size as the first, were taken from the safe and stowed away in this
      japanned case.  
  "Four thousand pounds!" murmured Greenwood to himself. "How many a family would be made
      happy with only the hundredth part of that sum! But those who want the glittering metal should
      toil for it as I have done."  
  Mr. Greenwood, having thus complimented himself upon those "toils" whereby he had gained his
      wealth, proceeded to take a large portfolio from the iron safe.  
  Partially opening its various compartments, so as to obtain a glance at the contents, he
      smiled still more complacently than when his eyes lingered on the canvass bags.  
  "Sixteen thousand pounds in Bank of England notes," he exclaimed aloud, as he consigned the
      portfolio to the tin case. "And these twenty thousand pounds, judiciously applied in Paris,
      will produce me twenty-five thousand clear gain—twenty-five thousand at the least!"  
  His really handsome countenance wore an expression of triumph, as he carefully locked the
      tin case, and placed the key in his pocket.  
  "My combinations are admirable! Thirty thousand pounds, already embarked in these Parisian
      speculations, have prepared the way for enormous gains: and now," continued Greenwood,—"now
      this sum,"—and he glanced towards the tin box—"will strike the decisive blow! It is a glorious
      science—that of the financier! And who is more subtle than I? True—I have experienced some
      losses during the past week—a few thousands: but they are nothing! I was wrong to job as I did
      in the English funds. The fluctuations in the French securities are the means by which
      brilliant fortunes can be made! The timid talk of the great risks—Pshaw! Let them combine
      their projects as I have done!"  
  He ceased, and surveyed himself complacently in the mirror above the mantel.  
  He then rang the bell.  
  Lafleur appeared in about a minute; but so calm, composed, and unruffled was his
      countenance, that no living soul would have suspected that he had been attentively listening
      at the door of the study all the while his master was transferring the treasure from the iron
      safe to the tin box.  
  "Bring me my upper coat and travelling cap, Lafleur," said Mr. Greenwood, not choosing to
      lose sight of his tin box.  
  Lafleur once more disappeared, and speedily returned with his master's travelling
      attire.  
  He announced at the same time that the chaise was at the door.  
  In a few minutes, Mr. Greenwood was ensconced in the vehicle. The tin box was stowed away
      under the seat: and his case of pistols lay by his side, within convenient reach.  
  Filippo and Lafleur mounted the dickey: the postillions cracked their whips; and the
      equipage rolled rapidly away from Spring Gardens.  
  At half-past eight o'clock precisely the vehicle drove up to the door of the principal inn
      of which the town of Rottenborough could boast.  
  The ostlers seemed to bungle in a very unusual manner, as they changed the horses; and full
      five minutes elapsed ere they could loosen the traces. In a word, they punctually obeyed the
      directions of Mr. Greenwood's agent in that famous town.  
  have walked down a dark lane where he knew any one of them to be lurking.  
  Out they came—in most admirable disorder—pell-mell—jostling, hustling, pushing, larking with
      each other.  
  "Hooray, Greenwood! brayvo, Greenwood!" they shouted, at the tops of voices somewhat
      disguised in liquor. "Greenwood for ever! Down with the Tories!"  
  "No—no!" shouted a little man, dressed in deep black, and who suddenly appeared at the head
      of the mob: "down with the Liberals, you mean!"  
  "Oh—ah! so it is!" cried the mob; and then they shouted louder than ever, "Hooray for
      Greenwood! Down with the Liberals! The Tories for ever!"  
  Then the little man in black, who was none other than the honourable member's agent, rushed
      up to the carriage window, exclaiming, "Ah! Mr. Greenwood!—you are discovered, you see! Very
      pretty, indeed, to think of passing through Rottenborough   incog.  ,—you who are the
      hope and the glory of the town! Luckily a party of gentlemen—all independent electors," added
      the lawyer, glancing round at the ragged and half-drunken mob, "were partaking of some little
      wholesome refreshment together—quite accidentally—in the tavern; and thus they are blessed
      with an opportunity of paying their respects to their representative in our glorious
      Parliament!"  
  "Brayvo, Greenwood!" ejaculated the crowd of "gentlemen," when the little lawyer had
      concluded his speech.  
  "Gentlemen," said Mr. Greenwood, thrusting his head out of the chaise-window, "you cannot
      conceive the delight which I experience at this most unexpected—most unlooked-for, and
      entirely spontaneous expression of your good feeling towards me. Gentlemen, when I behold an
      enlightened—an independent—a respectable—and an intelligent assembly thus coming forward to
      signify an approval of my parliamentary career, I meet with an ample recompense for all my
      exertions and toils to maintain the interests of the great constituency of Rottenborough.
      Gentlemen, the eyes of the world are upon you at this moment——"  
  "Then the world can see in the dark without spectacles," cried one of the free and
      independent inhabitants of Rottenborough.  
  "Yes, gentlemen," continued Greenwood, unabashed by this interruption, which raised a
      general titter; "the eyes of the world are upon you; for when Rottenborough thus emphatically
      expresses itself in favour of its member, it is avowing its stanch adherence to the true
      principles of Conservatism. This is a great fact, gentlemen; and so long as Rottenborough
      remains faithful to those principles, the democratic disturbers of the public peace must look
      on and tremble!"  
  With this splendid finale, Mr. Greenwood sank back in the chaise, which immediately drove
      rapidly away, amidst the uproarious shouts of the ragamuffins and tatterdemalions whom the
      lawyer had convoked, according to Lafleur's written instructions, for the occasion.  
  The ragamuffins and tatterdemalions were, however, well recompensed for their trouble; for
      they were copiously regaled with beer and tobacco before the arrival of the honourable member;
      and as soon as the member had departed, a supper of boiled tripe and onion-sauce was served up
      to them. The entertainment concluded with a quarrel and battle amongst the convivialists,
      several of whom took home with them broken heads and black eyes as trophies of their
      prowess.  
  Meantime the travelling-chaise rolled along the road.  
  The night was beautiful, clear, and frosty; and the moon rode high in the heavens.  
  Newington was passed; and Mr. Greenwood was just falling into a delicious sleep, when four
      men, wearing masks, and enveloped in thick pilot-coats, rushed from a hedge.  
  The horses were stopped suddenly; and two of the ruffians presented pistols at the heads of
      the postillions, menacing them with instant death if they offered any resistance.  
  Greenwood lowered the windows of the chaise, and holding a pistol in each hand, exclaimed,
      "I'll shoot the first who dares approach me!"  
  Filippo leapt to the ground on one side, and Lafleur followed him so closely, that he fell
      over the Italian, one of whose pistols went off by the shock, but without doing any mischief.
      Before he could make an effort to rise, Lafleur struck him on the head with the butt-end of
      one of his weapons, and laid him senseless on his back.  
  Meantime, while the Lully Prig and Long Bob took charge of the postillions, as above stated,
      the Resurrection Man and the Buffer rushed up to the door of the chaise.  
  Greenwood fired point-blank at Tidkins's head but without the slightest effect.  
  The door was opened; and the Resurrection Man sprang into the vehicle.  
  Greenwood fired his second pistol; but it merely singed his assailant's hair.  
  Then the Member of Parliament was dragged into the road, and bound hand and foot almost in
      the twinkling of an eye.  
  This being done, the Resurrection Man hastened to search the chaise, and speedily secured
      the tin box.  
  He gave a long shrill whistle: this was a signal to announce his success; for it had been
      previously agreed amongst the ruffians that they should not utter a word more than might be
      absolutely necessary, so that their voices might not be afterwards recognised, in case
      suspicion fell upon them. Moreover, the Resurrection Man's voice was well known to Greenwood;
      and thus this precaution was not an useless one.  
  The four robbers and Lafleur now beat a rapid retreat towards an adjacent chalk-pit, the
      Buffer leading the way, and the Resurrection Man carrying the box.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXIII.   KIND FRIENDS.  
  We left Richard Markham at the moment when, awaking in a strange bed, he perceived that
      Thomas Armstrong's letter was gone!  
  It would be impossible to describe his grief at this discovery.  
  regard his future welfare,—had been wrested from him!  
  For a few moments he remained a prey to the deepest dejection; and tears stole into his
      eyes.  
  But he was not allowed to remain long in that unpleasant reverie.  
  The door opened slowly; and a light step approached his couch.  
  He drew aside the curtain, and beheld a middle-aged lady, elegantly dressed, and with a
      countenance on which the Almighty had written the word "Benevolence" in characters so legible,
      that a savage might have read and learnt to revere them.  
  Advancing close up to the bed, the lady said, in a soft tone, and in the Italian
      language:—"Be not alarmed, Signor Markham; you are with those who will treat you as your
      dauntless valour and noble mind deserve."  
  "Where am I, madam?" asked our hero, reassured by the lady's words and manner.  
  "In the house of my brother, Signor Viviani, the most eminent banker in Pinalla," answered
      the lady.  
  "And how did you discover my name, Signora?" inquired Richard.  
  "By means of a letter which was secured in a morocco-case about your person, and is now safe
      in my brother's possession," returned Signora Viviani.  
  "A thousand thanks, lady, for that assurance—a thousand sincere and grateful thanks!"
      exclaimed Markham, new life as it were animating his soul.  
  "Hush!" cried the banker's sister, placing her finger upon her lip: "you must not give way
      to excitement of feelings. You have been ill—very ill."  
  "How long, Signora, has this illness lasted?"  
  "Ten days," was the reply. "You have been delirious."  
  "Ten days!" ejaculated Richard. "Alas! poor Morcar—what will he think? where can he be?"  
  "Morcar is safe and knows that you are here, Signor," said the lady. "But do not excite
      yourself. Providence has allowed you to suffer, for its own wise and inscrutable purposes; but
      it never deserts the good and great."  
  "Ah! lady, how can I ever thank you sufficiently for the goodness of yourself and your
      brother towards one who is a perfect stranger to you?" said Markham, pressing the lady's hand
      respectfully to his lips.  
  "You are not altogether so much a stranger to us as you imagine," observed the banker's
      sister, with a mysterious but good-natured smile. "But I will not tantalize, nor excite you by
      keeping you in suspense. Your deceased countryman Thomas Armstrong was my brother's intimate
      friend."  
  "Is this possible?" cried Markham, overjoyed at such welcome intelligence. "Then Providence
      has not indeed deserted me!"  
  "I will now hasten and fetch my brother to see you," said the lady. "He is burning with
      impatience for the moment when he can converse with you."  
  Signora Viviani left the room, and shortly returned, accompanied by a gentleman of about
      sixty, and whose countenance was as expressive of excellent qualities as her own.  
  "Here is our patient, brother," said the lady, with a smile: "a patient, however, only in
      one sense, for he has been very impatient in his queries; and now you must satisfy his
      curiosity in all respects."  
  "I am delighted to find that you are able to devote a thought to such matters, my dear young
      friend," exclaimed the banker, pressing both Markham's hands cordially in his own; "for as a
      friend do I indeed regard you," added the excellent man.  
  "How can I possibly have deserved such kind sympathy at your hands?" asked Richard,
      overpowered by so much goodness.  
  "Your deceased and much lamented friend Thomas Armstrong was as a brother to me, during his
      residence at different times in Castelcicala," answered the banker; "and he constantly
      corresponded with me when he was in his native country. In the letters which he wrote during
      the last two years of his life, he mentioned you in terms which, did I know nothing else
      meritorious on your part, would have induced me to welcome you as a friend—as a son. But your
      noble conduct in the late attempt to release Castelcicala from the sway of a tyrant, and place
      that excellent Prince Alberto on the ducal throne, has confirmed my good opinion of you—if any
      such confirmation were necessary. I learnt from Armstrong that you were generous, intelligent,
      and virtuous: recent events have shown that you are brave and liberal-minded."  
  "How rejoiced I am that my conduct in that unhappy affair merits your approval," said
      Richard. "I have often trembled, since the fatal day when so many brave spirits came to these
      coasts to meet death or imprisonment, lest the more sensible portion of the Castelcicalan
      community should look upon the expedition as one concocted only by selfish or insane
      adventurers."  
  "Selfish or insane!" ejaculated Viviani. "Was Grachia selfish or insane? was Morosino a mere
      adventurer? Oh! no—Castelcicala weeps over the bloody graves of her patriots; and thousands of
      tongues are familiar with the name of Richard Markham."  
  The countenance of our hero became animated with a glow of generous enthusiasm as these
      words met his ears.  
  "How handsome he is!" exclaimed the banker's sister. "An old woman like me may say so
      without impropriety," she added smiling; "and even the Princess Isabella would not be
      offended, did she overhear me."  
  "The Princess!" ejaculated Richard, surprised at this allusion to that beautiful lady.  
  capital called Saint Giles's. In a word, you need be under no anxiety relative to
      your friends in England."  
  "Excellent lady!" cried Markham; "you accumulate kindnesses so rapidly upon me, that I know
      not how to testify my gratitude. And, Morcar, too—how thoughtful of him! Oh! I have indeed
      found good friends."  
  "You are doubtless anxious to learn how you came into this house," said the banker. "I will
      tell you—for you will not allow your mind to compose itself until you know every thing. I had
      been to pass the day with a friend whose country seat is at a few miles' distance from
      Pinalla; and I was returning home in an open chaise, attended by my groom, when, in the middle
      of a lane which I had taken as a short cut, I was accosted by a man who seemed frantic with
      grief, and implored me to render assistance to his master. He spoke in English; and
      fortunately I understand that language tolerably well. In a word, the person who accosted me,
      was your dependant Morcar. He has since explained to me how you had separated at Friuli, in
      order to gain the Neapolitan frontier by different routes; and it seems that he was journeying
      along that lane, when he stumbled over a body in the path. The light of the moon speedily
      enabled him to recognise his master. At that moment my chaise fortunately came up to the spot.
      Not knowing who you were, but actuated by that feeling which would prompt me to assist any
      human being under such circumstances, I immediately proposed to convey you to my own house.
      Your dependant was overjoyed at the offer; and I desired him to accompany you. He would not
      tell me your real name, but when I questioned him on that point, gave a fictitious one. The
      poor fellow did not then know how I might be disposed towards the Constitutionalists who had
      survived the slaughter near Ossore. You may therefore conceive my astonishment when on my
      arrival at my house, I discovered a letter in a case fastened to a riband beneath your
      garments, as I helped to undress you. These words, '  To my dear friend, Richard
       Markham  ,' in a handwriting well known to me, immediately excited a suspicion in my mind;
      and when I had procured the attendance of my physician and ascertained that there was a hope
      of your eventual recovery—although your wound was a serious one—I questioned Morcar more
      closely than before. But he would not confess that you were Richard Markham. I then showed him
      the letter which I had found about your person. Still he obstinately denied the fact. At
      length, in order to convince him that I was really sincere in my good feeling towards you, I
      showed him several letters from the deceased Mr. Armstrong to me, and in which you were
      favourably mentioned. Then he became all confidence; and I can assure you that he is a most
      faithful and devoted creature towards you."  
  While the banker was yet speaking, he drew from his pocket the morocco case containing
      Armstrong's letter, and laid it upon the bed.  
  Richard warmly pressed his hand with grateful fervour.  
  He then in a few words narrated the particulars of the attack made upon him by the banditti
      in the narrow lane, and concluded by saying, "I consider the fact of the ruffians overlooking
      that document when they rifled me, as another proof of heaven's especial goodness towards me;
      for I value this relic of my departed friend as dearly as my life."  
  "And you are still ignorant of its contents?" said the banker, with a smile.  
  Richard was about to explain the nature of the mysterious instructions which Armstrong had
      written on the envelope, when Viviani stopped him, saying, "I know all. Some months before his
      death Armstrong wrote to me his intentions concerning you; and therefore, I presume that
       '  when you are destitute of all resources—when adversity or a too generous heart shall
       have deprived you of all means of subsistence—and when your own exertions fail to supply your
       wants, you will open the enclosed letter. But should no circumstances of any kind deprive you
       of the little property which you now possess—and should you not be plunged into a state of
       need from which your own talents and exertions cannot relieve you,—then will you open that
       letter on the morning of the 10th of July, 1843, on which day you are to meet your
       brother.  '"  
  So astonished was Markham, while the banker recapitulated the   very words   of
      Armstrong's mysterious instructions, that he could not utter a syllable until the excellent
      man had finished speaking; and then he cried, in a tone of the most unfeigned surprise, "My
      dear sir, you know all, then?"  
  Signora Viviani laughed so heartily at Markham's astonishment, that her good-natured
      countenance became quite purple.  
  "Indeed, I do know all," exclaimed the banker, laughing also; "and that is not surprising,
      either, seeing that every farthing Armstrong has left you is in my hands. But I must not say
      any more on that head: indeed, I am afraid I have violated my departed friend's instructions
      to   me   by saying so much already. However, my dear Richard—for so you must allow me to
      call you, as I am a sort of guardian or trustee towards you—you will not want to open that
      letter until the 10th of July, 1843; for if you require money, you have only to draw a cheque
      upon me, and I will honour it—aye, even for ten or fifteen thousand pounds."  
  "Is it possible that I am awake? am I not dreaming? is this fairy-land, or Castelcicala?"
      said Richard. "I am overwhelmed with happy tidings and kindnesses."  
  Again did the good banker and his merry sister—who, though bachelor and spinster, possessed
      hearts overflowing with the milk of human kindness, and who felt towards Richard almost as a
      father and mother would feel towards their own child,—again did they laugh heartily; until the
      lady remembered that their patient might be too much excited.  
  "And now I dare say you are anxious about your faithful Morcar," said the banker. "In truth,
      he is a mystery whom I cannot fathom. All I know of him is that he is most devotedly attached
      to you. He comes to the house every evening, and sits by your bed-side a couple of hours, or
      perhaps more; and then he takes his departure again. In vain have I pressed him to remain
      here—to live here so long as you are my guest: no—he declares that he has business on his
      hands; and he keeps that business a profound secret. He is always absent save during those two
      or three hours which he spends near you."  
  pillow—he must raise your head, and give you your cooling drink—he must hold your
      hands when the delirium is on you (but, thank heaven!   that   has passed now);—in a
      word, no one is permitted to be your nurse save himself."  
  "The good, faithful creature!" cried Markham, tears standing on his long, dark, and slightly
      curled lashes. "Heaven grant that he be not involving himself in any difficulty."  
  "He seems prudent and steady," said the banker; "and those are grand qualities. Moreover,
      these men of Egyptian origin have strange fancies and whims. In any case, he will be more
      communicative to you than he is to us."  
  "You have now gratified my curiosity in many—many ways," said Richard; "but there is one
      more point——"  
  "You are interminable with your questions," exclaimed Signora Viviani, laughing. "Now,
      remember—this is the last we will answer on the present occasion, or we shall really fatigue
      you."  
  "Oh! no," returned our hero. "When the mind labours under no suspense, how soon the physical
      energies revive."  
  "Speak, then," said the banker.  
  "What is the present condition of Castelcicala? has it been ameliorated, or rendered more
      deplorable?"  
  The banker's countenance fell.  
  "My dear Richard," he replied, "strange and striking events have occurred during the last
      few days,—events which it pains me to recount, as it will grieve you to hear them. The Grand
      Duchess fled from the capital—no one knows wherefore. It is certain that she reached
      Montecuculi in safety; and her farther progress is a complete mystery. All traces of her cease
      there. But that is not all. An army of thirty thousand Austrians, Richard,—an army of
      foreigners has been called into the State by Angelo III. Ten days ago it crossed the Roman
      frontiers, and encamped beneath the walls of Montoni."  
  "Merciful heaven!" ejaculated Richard: "an army of occupation in the country!"  
  "Alas! that I should tell the truth when I say so," continued the banker, in a melancholy
      tone. "The Grand Duke intends to enforce his despotism by means of foreign bayonets. Four
      thousand Austrians moved on as far as Abrantani, where they are placed under the command of
      Captain-General Santa Croce, that province being considered the most unsettled, and the one
      exhibiting the greatest inclination to raise the standard of liberty. But Montoni,
      Richard,—Montoni, our capital, has set a glorious example. The same day that the Austrians
      appeared beneath its walls, its inhabitants rose against the Grand Duke and his infamous
      Ministers. The Municipal Council, with the Mayor at its head, declared its sittings permanent,
      and proclaimed itself a Committee of Government. The garrison, consisting of ten thousand
      brave men, pronounced in favour of the Committee. The Grand Duke and his Ministers fled to the
      Austrian camp, and took refuge with Marshal Herbertstein, the generalissimo of the foreign
      army of occupation. And now, Richard—now the Grand Duke and his Austrian allies are besieging
      the capital of Castelcicala!"  
  "Alas! these are terrible tidings," said Richard, astounded at all he had just heard, and at
      the rapidity with which so many important events had occurred.  
  "Terrible tidings they must be to one who, like you, has fought for Castelcicalan liberty,"
      continued the banker. "Oh! that I should have lived to see my country thus oppressed—thus
      subject to a foreign yoke! But I have not yet told you all. The Lord High Admiral of
      Castelcicala has declared in favour of the Grand Duke, and has instituted a blockade, with all
      his fleet, at the mouth of the Ferretti, so that no provisions may be conveyed into the
      besieged capital. The garrison of Montoni is, however, behaving nobly; and as yet the
      Austrians have made no impression upon the city. But a famine must ensue in Montoni;—and then,
      all hope will be lost!"  
  "And the other great cities of Castelcicala?" asked Richard: "do they make no demonstration
      in this terrible crisis?"  
  "Alas—no! Martial law everywhere prevails; and had we not a humane and merciful
      Captain-General at the head of the province of Pinalla, our condition here would be desperate
      indeed. You are doubtless aware that all the Constitutionalists who were taken prisoners at
      the battle of Ossore, are now prisoners in Estella——"  
  Signor Viviani was interrupted by the entrance of a servant, who came to announce that
      Morcar requested admittance to the sick-room.  
  The kind-hearted banker and his no less excellent sister withdrew, in order to allow the
      gipsy an opportunity of free and unrestrained intercourse with his master.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXIV.   ESTELLA.  
  Nothing could exceed the joy which the faithful Morcar experienced on finding his master
      restored to consciousness, and evidently in a fair way towards convalescence.  
  The reader may imagine with what enthusiasm the gipsy dwelt upon the kindness of Signor
      Viviani and his sister; and when the grateful fellow had exhausted all his powers of speech in
      depicting the excellent qualities of these good people, he begged Markham to acquaint him with
      his adventures since they separated at Friuli.  
  Richard related those particulars which are already known to the reader; and he did not
      forget to reproach Morcar for having refused to accept his share of the purse at the tavern in
      the suburbs of the above-mentioned town.  
  "I knew that I should not require the gold, sir," answered Morcar; "for an individual of my
      race finds friends and brethren all over the world. Nor was I an exception to that rule. At a
      short distance from Friuli I fell in with an encampment of   Cingani  —for so the gipsies
      are called in Italy; and I was immediately welcomed in a way becoming my position as the heir
      to the sovereign of the Zingarees of Great Britain."  
  "But how did you render yourself intelligible to your Italian brethren?" asked Richard, with
      a good-natured smile at the solemn manner in which his follower had uttered the concluding
      portion of his observations.  
  us to converse freely with each other. I travelled with the Cingani belonging to
      the encampment; and when we arrived in the neighbourhood of Pinalla, I took leave of them with
      the intention of hastening over the frontier to Naples. God ordained that I should strike into
      the same path which you were pursuing; and I could not have been many yards behind you, when
      you were attacked by the banditti in the manner you have just explained to me. You may
      conceive my grief when I found you lying senseless in that gloomy lane, and when the
      moonlight, falling on your countenance, showed me who you were. Had it not been for the
      accidental arrival of Signor Viviani on the spot, and at that particular moment, I cannot say
      what would have become of us. You know the rest."  
  "Not entirely, my dear Morcar," said Richard. "I do not wish to penetrate into your secrets;
      but I am anxious to learn wherefore you refused the hospitality of Signor Viviani's
      mansion?"  
  "When I found that you were amongst friends, sir," answered Morcar, "and that there was no
      longer any necessity for me to proceed to Naples, I returned to my brethren, the Cingani. I
      have dwelt with them ever since; but have occasionally called to inquire after you."  
  "Nay, my faithful friend," exclaimed Richard, taking the gipsy's hand, "do not depreciate
      your own goodness of heart. I have learnt how regularly you came to pass the evening by my
      side, and how kindly you ministered to me. Heaven grant that the day may arrive when I shall
      be enabled to reward you adequately."  
  "You must not talk any more at present, sir," said the gipsy. "If you will only remain quiet
      for a few days, you will be quite well; and then—"  
  "And then, what?" asked Richard, seeing that the gipsy checked himself.  
  "And then we can deliberate on the best course to adopt," replied Morcar.  
  Our hero saw that his dependant had some plan in his head; but he did not choose to press
      him on the subject.  
  A fortnight had elapsed since Richard Markham awoke to consciousness in the house of the
      generous Castelcicalan banker.  
  This interval had produced a marvellous change in his physical condition.  
  A powerful constitution, aided by excellent medical advice, and the unremitting attention of
      his kind friends, enabled him to triumph over the severity of the treatment which he had
      experienced at the hands of the banditti.  
  He was now completely restored to health—with the exception of a partial weakness and pallor
      which naturally followed a long confinement to his couch.  
  But by means of gentle exercise in the garden belonging to the banker's house, he was
      rapidly recovering his strength, and the hues of youth again began to bloom upon his
      cheeks.  
  It was on the 26th of December, 1840, that he had a long conversation with the banker and
      Morcar. A certain project was the topic of this debate,—a project for which Morcar had
      arranged all the preliminaries during Richard's illness, and which our hero now burned to
      carry into execution. Signor Viviani raised but one objection; and that was only for the
      purpose of delaying, not renouncing, the scheme in view. He feared lest Markham's health might
      not be sufficiently restored to enable him to embark so soon in the enterprise. But this doubt
      was completely over-ruled by his young friend, whose enthusiastic soul could not brook delay
      in a matter that was so near and dear to his heart.  
  The deliberations of the three individuals who formed this solemn council lasted for four
      hours, and concluded at sunset. Richard then wrote several letters, which he sealed and placed
      in the hands of Signor Viviani, saying, "You will forward these only in case of my death."  
  The banker wrung our hero's hand cordially, exclaiming, "No, my generous—my gallant-hearted
      young friend; something within me seems to say that there will be no need to dispatch those
      letters to your friends in England; for proud success shall be yours!"  
  Signora Viviani entered the room at this moment, and in a tone of deep anxiety, inquired the
      result of the deliberation.  
  "The expedition is to take place," replied the banker, solemnly.  
  "Ah! Signor Markham," exclaimed the lady; "have you well weighed the contingencies? Do not
      imagine that I would attempt to dissuade you from so generous,—so noble an undertaking!—Oh!
      no,—I should be the last to do so. And yet—"  
  "My dear madam," interrupted Richard, with a smile, "I appreciate all your kind anxiety in
      my behalf; but I must fulfil my duty towards those unfortunate creatures who embarked in an
      enterprise of which I was one of the chiefs."  
  "It would be improper in me to urge a single argument against so noble a purpose," said the
      banker's sister. "May God prosper you, Richard."  
  The old lady wiped the tears from her eyes as she spoke.  
  It was now quite dusk; and our hero signified his intention of taking his departure. He
      confided the morocco case containing Armstrong's letter, to his excellent friend, the banker,
      and at the same time expressed his deep gratitude for all the kindness he had experienced at
      the hands of that gentleman and his sister.  
  "Do not talk thus, my noble boy," ejaculated the old man; "it makes me melancholy—as if I
      were never to see you more; whereas, I feel convinced that there are many, many happy days in
      store for us all! Here, Richard—take this pocket-book: it contains bank-notes to some amount.
      But if you require more, hesitate not to draw upon me for any sum that you need. And now,
      farewell—and may all good angels watch over you!"  
  Signora Viviani, on her side, felt as acutely in parting with our hero as if she were
      separating from a near relative—so much had his amiable qualities, generous disposition, and
      noble character endeared him alike to the banker and his kind-hearted sister.  
  And now the door of that hospitable mansion closed behind Richard Markham, who was
      accompanied by his faithful Morcar.  
  They pursued their way, the gipsy acting as the guide, through the streets of Pinalla, and
      passing out of the town by the north-eastern gate, followed the course of the river Usiglio
      for upwards of two miles and a-half.  
  chaste moon; and the air was mild, though fresh enough to be invigorating.  
  At length they reached the confines of a forest, into which Morcar plunged, closely followed
      by his master.  
  They now continued their way amidst an almost total darkness, so thick was the foliage of
      the evergreens through the mazes of which they pursued their course.  
  Presently lights glimmered among the trees; and in a few minutes more, Morcar conducted our
      hero into a wide open area, where a spacious gipsy-encampment was established.  
  Markham caught his companion by the arm, and held him back for a few moments while he
      contemplated that scene so strange—so wild—and yet so picturesque.  
  A space, probably an acre in extent, had been cleared in the midst of the forest; and the
      tall trees all around constituted a natural barrier, defining the limits of the arena formed
      for the encampment.  
  A hundred tents, of the rude gipsy fashion, swarmed with life. Dark countenances bent over
      the cheerful fires, above which mighty caldrons were simmering; and the lurid light was
      reflected from dark eyes. The tall athletic forms of men and the graceful figures of women,
      were thrown out into strong relief by the lambent flames; and the sounds of many voices fell
      in confused murmurs upon the ears.  
  "There are four hundred brave men, who will welcome you as their leader, sir!" exclaimed
      Morcar, stretching forth his arm towards the encampment.  
  "Oh! my dear friend," cried Markham, all the enthusiasm of his soul aroused by the hopes
      which those words conveyed: "by what magic were you enabled to collect this band in so short a
      time?"  
  "My influence as the son of Zingary was sufficient to induce them to make our cause their
      own, sir," replied Morcar; "and the extensive organization of the fraternity was already well
      calculated to gather them thus together. I have moreover informed you that they are all well
      armed; for their funds have been devoted to the purchase of the weapons and ammunition
      necessary for the undertaking."  
  "Which outlay it will be my care immediately to reimburse," said Richard. "But you speak of
      me as the chief of this band, Morcar? No—that honour is reserved for you, whose energies and
      influence alone could have brought those four hundred men together."  
  "That may not be, sir," returned Morcar, seriously. "These men have assembled with the hope
      that   you   will be their chief: it is   your   name which is enthusiastically
      spoken of in Castelcicala; and it is   your   presence which will animate this gipsy-band
      with courage. Come—let me introduce you to the chiefs of the tribe."  
  "Is the King amongst them?" asked Richard.  
  "No, sir: the King of the Cingani, or Italian gipsies, is at present in Tuscany; but the
      chiefs, to whom I will now conduct you, are his relations."  
  Morcar led our hero through the mazes of the encampment to a tent more conveniently
      contrived and spacious than the rest; and as they passed along, the groups of Cingani surveyed
      Richard with curiosity and respect.  
  They evidently divined who he was.  
  In the tent to which Morcar conducted his master, three elderly men were seated upon mats,
      smoking their pipes, and discoursing gravely upon political affairs.  
  They welcomed Richard with respectful warmth, and instantly assigned to him the place of
      honour at the upper end of the tent.  
  A council was then held; but as the results will explain the decision to which the members
      came, it is not necessary to detail the deliberations on this occasion.  
  We must, however, observe that Markham accepted the responsible and difficult post of
      commandant of the entire force; and he immediately handed over to the gipsies an amount in
      bank-notes equivalent to a thousand pounds, for the purpose of reimbursing the outlay already
      effected by the Cingani chiefs, and of supplying an advance of pay to all the members of the
      band.  
  At about eleven o'clock the fires were all extinguished throughout the encampment; and,
      sentinels having been posted at short intervals round the open space, those who were not on
      duty laid down to rest.  
  At day-break the scene was once more all bustle and life: the morning meal was hastily
      disposed of; and Richard then issued the necessary orders for breaking up the encampment.  
  It was arranged that the men who bore arms should proceed by forced marches towards Estella;
      while the women and children might follow at their own pace.  
  The farewells between husbands and wives, brothers and sisters, fathers and children, sons
      and mothers, took place in silence, but in profound sincerity; and the corps, consisting of
      four hundred men, all well armed with muskets and cutlasses, and some few with axes also, was
      soon in motion amidst the dense mazes of the forest.  
  Markham, with a sword by his side and a pair of pistols in the breast of his coat, advanced
      in front of the column, attended by the three chiefs and Morcar.  
  It was at day-break on the 29th of December, that the sentinels posted on the southern
      bastion of the citadel of Estella, observed a small but compact body of men suddenly emerge
      from the forest which stretches along the Usiglio, from the neighbourhood of Pinalla almost up
      to the very walls of Estella.  
  An alarm was given throughout the citadel; for the beams of the rising sun glistened on the
      weapons of the small force that was approaching; and although no uniform attire characterised
      the corps, it was easy to perceive that it advanced with a hostile intention.  
  But ere the garrison could be got under arms, Richard's followers had already cut an opening
      in the palisades which protected the glacis, and were advancing up the inclined plane towards
      the rampart. On they went, their youthful leader at their head: the glacis was passed—the
      covered way was gained—and then the sentinels on the bastion discharged their muskets at the
      besiegers.  
  Two of the Cingani fell dead, and one was very slightly wounded.  
  "Follow me!" cried our hero; and rushing along the covered way, he reached the wooden bridge
      which communicated with the interior of the citadel.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  And now commenced an interval of fearful peril, but for which Markham was not
      unprepared.  
  The soldiers of the garrison had by this time flocked to the rampart of the bastion, and
      commenced a terrific fire upon the besiegers. The latter, however, replied to it with rapidity
      and effect, while half a dozen of the foremost cut down with their axes a huge beam from the
      wooden bridge, and, under the superintendence of Markham, used it as a battering-ram at the
      postern-gate.  
  The Cingani, however, lost eight or nine of their men while this task was in progress; and
      their position, exposed as they were to a murderous fire, would soon have become untenable,
      had not the postern-gate shortly yielded to the engine employed against it.  
  Then, with his drawn sword in his hand, Markham precipitated himself into the citadel,
      closely followed, and well supported by the brave and faithful Cingani.  
  The tunnel beneath the rampart, into which the postern opened, was disputed for some minutes
      with desperate valour on both sides; but our hero was so ably backed by Morcar, the three
      chiefs, and the foremost of his corps, that he eventually drove the soldiers before him.  
  "Constitutional freedom and Prince Alberto!" shouted Richard, as he rushed onward, and
      entered the court of the citadel.  
  The cry was taken up by the Cingani; and although the conflict continued in the court for
      nearly half an hour longer, it was evident that the note of liberty had touched a chord in the
      hearts of the Castelcicalan soldiers, for they resisted but feebly and, though superior in
      numbers to the besiegers, rapidly gave way.  
  On the farther side of the court stood a large but low and straggling building, the windows
      of which were defended with iron bars.  
  "Friends," exclaimed Markham, pointing with his blood-stained sword towards that structure,
      "there is the prison of the patriots!"  
  These words operated like an electric shock upon our hero's followers; and they rushed
      onward, driving the soldiers like chaff before them.  
  forced: Richard entered the gloomy stronghold, and the work of liberation
      commenced.  
  Five hundred Castelcicalan patriots were restored to freedom in a short half-hour; and when
      they recognised in their deliverer him who had been one of the chiefs of the first expedition,
      and whose valour was so signalised in the battle near Ossore, their enthusiasm knew no
      bounds.  
  The name of "  Markham  " was shouted to the sky: the patriots flocked around him, with
      heart-felt thanks and the most fervent outpourings of their gratitude; and they hailed him as
      a deliverer and a chief.  
  There was not, however, much time for congratulation or explanation. Though the garrison of
      the citadel was weak, that of the town itself was strong; for the Captain-General had
      concentrated the greater part of his force in the heart of Estella in order to over-awe the
      inhabitants. This fact had been previously gleaned by the spies whom Morcar had sent out while
      Richard was yet an inmate of the banker's house; and hence the attack upon the most exposed
      part of the citadel in preference to an attempt upon the town.  
  Richard was now master of the citadel. A portion of the garrison had fled into Estella; but
      by far the larger part, about three hundred in number, declared its readiness to join the
      cause of liberty. This offer was joyfully accepted. The armoury was then visited, and arms
      were distributed to the patriots who had been delivered from their dungeons.  
  Thus Richard Markham found himself at the head of an effective force of nearly twelve
      hundred men—a triumphant position, which had fortunately cost no more than about twenty lives
      on the side of the Cingani.  
  It was now mid-day; and while his forces were obtaining refreshment, and putting the citadel
      in a proper state of defence, in case of an attack on the part of the Captain-General of
      Estella, Richard called a council of the three Cingani chiefs, Morcar, the leading patriots
      whom he had released, and the officers of the garrison-troops that had declared in favour of
      "Constitutional liberty and Prince Alberto."  
  At this council it was resolved that Richard should issue a proclamation to the inhabitants
      of Estella, declaring the real objects for which the standard of civil liberty had been
      raised—namely, to release the imprisoned patriots, to expel the Austrians from the land, and
      to place Prince Alberto upon the ducal throne.  
  This resolution was carried into effect; and the document was forwarded to the Mayor of
      Estella. The corporation was immediately assembled; and while the Captain-General prepared to
      attack the citadel, the municipal body remained in close deliberation.  
  Three hours elapsed; when a rumour prevailed throughout the town that the troops had refused
      to leave their barracks at the command of the Captain-General. This proof of sympathy with the
      successful Constitutionalists decided the opinions of the members of the corporation; and the
      Mayor, attended by several of the municipal authorities, waited upon Richard Markham and
      presented him with the keys of the city.  
  No sooner were these tidings bruited throughout Estella, than the Captain-General, the
      Political Prefect, and one regiment which remained faithful to the Grand Duke's cause, left
      the town with extraordinary precipitation: the remainder of the garrison sent a deputation to
      Markham's head quarters in the citadel to announce their readiness to join his cause; and at
      seven o'clock in the evening of that eventful day the roar of the artillery on the walls of
      Estella saluted the tri-coloured flag of liberty which was hoisted on the Town-Hall.  
  By this grand and decisive blow, Richard possessed himself of one of the principal towns of
      Castelcicala, and found himself backed by a force of three thousand men.  
  His first care, when order and tranquillity were restored that evening, was to forward a
      courier with a letter to Signor Viviani at Pinalla. That letter not only detailed the events
      of the day, but contained a request that the banker would lose no time in writing an account
      of the proceedings direct to Prince Alberto (under the name of Count Alteroni) in England.
      Richard also enclosed a letter to be forwarded to Mr. Monroe, and one from Morcar to Eva.  
  The corporation had assembled in the Town Hall, immediately after the tri-coloured flag was
      hoisted, and remained in deliberation until past ten o'clock. The Mayor then published a
      proclamation in which there were three clauses. The first declared the sittings of the
      municipal body permanent, under the title of "Committee of Administration for the Province of
      Estella." The second nominated Richard Markham General-in-chief of the army of that province.
      The third called upon all good and faithful Castelcicalan patriots to take up arms in the
      cause of Constitutional liberty and Prince Alberto, and against the Austrian army of
      occupation.  
  A copy of this proclamation was forwarded to Richard Markham, who highly approved of the
      first and last clauses, and accepted the rank conferred upon him by the second.  
  Early on the following morning uniforms, taken from the store-rooms in the arsenal, were
      distributed amongst the Cingani and the patriots who had been liberated; and Richard then made
      his entry into Estella, in compliance with the request of the corporation.  
  Wearing the uniform of a General-officer, and mounted upon a handsome charger, our hero
      never appeared to greater advantage.  
  The garrison of the town lined the streets, and presented arms to the youthful commander
      whose extraordinary skill and prowess had so materially contributed to the victory of the
      preceding day, and who was hailed as a champion raised up by Providence to deliver
      Castelcicala from the tyranny under which it groaned.  
  He was attended by two officers whom he had appointed his   aides-de-camp  ,
      and by the faithful Morcar, whom nothing could induce to accept any definite rank, but who, in
      the uniform of a private, was proud to follow his valiant master.  
  The windows were crowded with faces, anxious to obtain a glimpse of the youthful hero; and
      while bright eyes shone upon his way, fair hands waved handkerchiefs or threw nosegays of
      exotics and artificial flowers from the casements.  
  The bells rang merrily; the artillery saluted the entrance of the General into the town; the
      crowds in the streets welcomed him with enthusiastic shouts; and the civic authorities, in
      their official robes, received him as he alighted at the Town-Hall.  
  There he was complimented on his gallant deeds, and invited to partake of a
      sumptuous banquet in the evening.  
  But Richard's answer was firm though respectful.  
  "Gentlemen," he said, "pardon me if I decline your great kindness. There remains so much to
      be done, to restore happiness to Castelcicala, that I should deem myself unworthy of your
      confidence, did I waste valuable time in festivity. A detachment of the Austrian army occupies
      and overawes the province of Abrantani: in two hours, with your permission, I propose to set
      out in that direction with all the forces that you will spare me. Should Providence prosper my
      arms in this new expedition, my course is simple. I shall proceed to Montoni, and either
      deliver the capital from the besieging force, or perish beneath its walls."  
  This short but pithy speech was received with enthusiastic cheers by the municipal body.  
  "Go, sir," said the Mayor, when silence was obtained once more, "and fulfil your grand
      mission. Take with you the force that you deem necessary for your purposes; and it shall be
         our   duty to supply you with a treasury-chest that will not be indifferently
      furnished. Go, sir: God has sent you to us in the time of our bitter need; and you are
      destined to deliver Castelcicala from its tyrant."  
  Markham bowed, and withdrew.  
  His return to the citadel was a signal for the renewal of that enthusiasm which had greeted
      his entrance into the town.  
  But he was not proud! No—he had no room in his heart for pride: hope—delicious, burning,
      joyous hope,—the hope of accomplishing his mighty aims and earning the hand of Isabella as his
      reward,—this was the only sentiment which filled his soul!  
  On his arrival at the citadel once more, he issued immediate orders to prepare for a march.
      He proposed to leave a garrison of one thousand men in Estella, and take two thousand with
      him; for he calculated that this number would be considerably increased, by volunteers, on his
      way to Abrantani.  
  The evident rapidity with which he intended his movements to be characterised, created a
      most favourable impression not only amongst the inhabitants of Estella, but also with the
      troops under his command; and though they all deemed him eminently worthy of the post to which
      he had been raised, yet few foresaw the future greatness of that hero who was destined to take
      his place amongst the most brilliant warriors of the age.  
  It was at two o'clock in the afternoon that the Constitutional army, consisting of two
      thousand men, defiled through the western gate of the citadel, towards the bridge over the
      Usiglio. A squadron of four hundred cavalry led the way: next came the corps of Cingani; then
      the horse-artillery, with twelve field-pieces; next the liberated patriots; and the rear-guard
      consisted of the regular infantry of the garrison.  
  As soon as the river was crossed, Richard formed his little army into three columns, and
      then commenced a rapid march towards Villabella, which he knew to be well affected in favour
      of the Constitutional cause.  
  But while he was leading a gallant band over the fertile plains of Castelcicala, incidents
      deserving notice occurred in his native land far away.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXV.   ANOTHER NEW YEAR'S DAY.  
  It was the 1st of January, 1841.  
  If there be any hour in the life of man when he ought to commune with his own heart, that
      proper interval of serious reflection is to be found on New Year's Day.  
  Then, to the rightly constituted mind, the regrets for the past will serve as finger-posts
      and guides to the hopes of the future.  
  The heathen mythology depicted Janus with two faces, looking different ways:—so let the
      human heart, when on the first day of January, it stands between two years, retrospect
      carefully over the one that has gone, and combine all its solemn warnings for use and example
      in the new one which has just commenced.  
  This also is the day that recalls, with additional impressiveness, the memory of those dear
      relatives and friends whose mortal forms have been swept away by the viewless and voiceless
      stream of Time.  
  Nor less do fond parents think, amidst tears and prayers, of their sons who are absent in
      the far-off places of the earth,—fighting the battles of their country on the burning plains
      of India, or steering their way across the pathless solitudes of the ocean.  
  But, alas! little reck the wealthy and great for those whose arms defend them, or whose
      enterprise procures them all the bounties of the earth.  
  An oligarchy has cramped the privileges and monopolised the rights of a mighty nation.  
  Behold the effects of its infamous Poor-Laws;—contemplate the results of the more atrocious
      Game-Laws;—mark the consequences of the Corn-Laws.  
    The Poor-Laws!   Not even did the ingenuity of the Spanish or Italian Inquisitions
      conceive a more effectual method of deliberate torture and slow death, than the fearful system
      of mental-abasement and gradient starvation invented by England's legislators. When the
      labourer can toil for the rich no longer, away with him to the workhouse! When the old man,
      who has contributed for half a century to the revenue of the country, is overtaken by sudden
      adversity at an age which paralyses his energies, away with him to the workhouse! When the
      poor widow, whose sons have fallen in the ranks of battle or in defence of the wooden walls of
      England, is deprived of her natural supporters, away with her to the workhouse! The workhouse
      is a social dung-heap on which the wealthy and great fling those members of the community
      whose services they can no longer render available to their selfish purposes.  
    The Game-Laws!  of a miserably small minority demand the protection of a statute which is a
      fertilising source of oppression, wretchedness, ruin, and demoralization. The Game-Laws are a
      rack whereon the aristocracy loves to behold its victims writhing in tortures, and where the
      sufferers are compelled to acknowledge as a heinous crime a deed which has in reality no moral
      turpitude associated with it.  
    The Corn-Laws!   Were the Russian to boast of his freedom, Common Sense would point
      to Siberia and to the knout, and laugh in his face. When the Englishman vaunts the glory of
      his country's institutions, that same Common Sense comes forward and throws the Corn-Laws in
      his teeth. What! liberty in connexion with the vilest monopoly that ever mortal policy
      conceived? Impossible! England manufactures articles which all the civilised world requires;
      and other states yield corn in an abundance that defies the possibility of home consumption.
      And yet an inhuman selfishness has declared that England shall not exchange her manufactures
      for that superfluous produce. No—the manufactures may decay in the warehouses here, and the
      grain abroad may be thrown to the swine, sooner than a miserable oligarchy will consent to
      abandon one single principle of its shameless monopoly. The Corn-Laws are a broom which sweeps
      all the grain on the threshing-floor into one corner for the use of the rich, but which leaves
      the chaff scattered every where about for the millions of poor to use as best they may.  
  The aristocracy of England regards the patience of the masses as a bow whose powers of
      tension are unlimited: but the day must come, sooner or later, when those who thus dare to
      trifle with this generous elasticity will be struck down by the violence of the recoil.  
  Although our legislators—trembling at what they affect to sneer at under the denomination of
      "the march of intellect"—obstinately refuse to imitate enlightened France by instituting a
      system of national education,—nevertheless, the millions of this country are now instructing
      themselves!  
  Honour to the English mechanic—honour to the English operative: each alike seeks to taste of
      the tree of learning, "whose root is bitter, but whose fruits are sweet!"  
  Thank God, no despotism—no tyranny can arrest the progress of that mighty intellectual
      movement which is now perceptible amongst the industrious millions of these realms.  
  And how excellent are the principles of that self-instruction which now tends to elevate the
      moral condition of the country. It is not confined within the narrow limits which churchmen
      would impose: it embraces the sciences—the arts—all subjects of practical utility,—its aim
      being to model the mind on the solid basis of Common Sense.  
  To the millions thus enlightened, Religion will appear in all its purity, and the objects of
      Government in all their simplicity. The holy Christian worship will cease to be regarded as an
      apology for endowing a Church with enormous revenues; and political administration must no
      longer be considered as a means of rendering a small portion of the community happy and
      prosperous to the utter prejudice of the vast remainder.  
  There breathes not a finer specimen of the human race than a really enlightened and
      liberal-minded Englishman. But if   he   be deserving of admiration and applause, who has
      received his knowledge from the lips of a paid preceptor—how much more worthy of praise and
      respect is   the self-instructed mechanic  !  
  But to resume our narrative.  
  It was the 1st of January, 1841.  
  The time-piece on the mantel in Mr. Greenwood's study had just struck two in the
      afternoon.  
  That gentleman himself was pacing the apartment in an agitated manner.  
  His handsome dressing-gown of oriental pattern was not arranged, with the usual contrived
      air of negligence, to display the beautiful shirt-front, over which hung the gold chain of his
      Breguet-watch:—on the contrary, it had evidently been hurried on without the least regard to
      effect.  
  The writing-table was heaped with a confused pile of letters and accounts—not thrown
      together for show, but lying in the actual disorder in which they had been tossed aside after
      a minute investigation.  
  Though not absolutely slovenly in his present appearance, Mr. Greenwood had certainly
      neglected his toilet on that day; and the state of his room moreover proved that he was too
      much absorbed in serious affairs to devote time to the minor considerations of neatness and
      the strict propriety of order.  
  There was a cloud upon his brow; and his manner was restless and unsettled.  
  "Curses—eternal curses upon that Lafleur!" he exclaimed aloud, as he walked up and down with
      uneven steps. "To think that I should have lost so much at one blow! Oh! it nearly drives me
      mad—mad! If it had only been the twenty thousand pounds of which the black-hearted French
      villain and his confederates plundered me, I might have snapped my fingers at Fortune who thus
      vented her temporary spite upon me! But the enormous amount I lost in addition, by failing to
      pour that sum of English notes and gold into circulation in the French capital,—the almost
      immediate fall in the rates of exchange, and the fluctuation of the French funds,—Oh!
         there   it was that I was so seriously injured. Fifty thousand pounds snatched from me
      as it were in a moment,—fifty thousand pounds of hard money—my own money! And the thirty
      thousand pounds that I had first sent over to Paris were so judiciously laid out! My
      combinations were admirable: I should have been a clear gainer of five-and-twenty thousand,
      had not that accursed robbery taken place! May the villain Lafleur die in a charnel-house—may
      he perish the most miserable of deaths!"  
  Mr. Greenwood ground his teeth with rage as he uttered these horrible maledictions.  
  He did not, however, recall to mind that Lafleur was an honest man when he entered his
      service;—he did not pause to reflect upon all the intrigues, machinations, plots, duplicities,
      and villanies, in which he had employed his late valet,—thus gradually initiating him in those
      paths which could scarcely have led to any other result than the point in which they had
      actually terminated—the robbery of the master by the servant whom he had thus tutored.  
  "The villain!" continued Greenwood. "And I was so kind to him—constantly increasing his
      wages and making him presents! Such confidence as I put in him, too! Filippo, whom I did not
      trust to half the same extent—save in my intrigues with women—is stanch and faithful to
      me!"  
  He paused and glanced towards the time-piece.  
  "Half-past two; and Tomlinson does not come! What   can   detain him? Surely that
      affair cannot have gone wrong also? If so——"  
  And Greenwood's countenance became as dark and lowering as the sky ere the explosion of the
      storm.  
  In a few moments a double-knock at the door echoed through the house.  
  "Here's Tomlinson!" ejaculated Greenwood; and with sovereign command over himself, he
      composed his features and assumed his wonted ease of manner.  
  The stock-broker now entered the room.  
  "You are an hour behind your time, Tomlinson," said Greenwood, shaking him by the hand.  
  "I could not come before," was the answer: "I was detained on your business."  
  "What news?" asked Greenwood, scarcely able to conceal his profound anxiety.  
  "Bad," replied Tomlinson. "You have sent sixteen thousand pounds to look after the fifty you
      have already lost. Fortunately you are a rich man, and can stand reverses of this kind.
      Besides, one who speculates so enormously as you have done of late, must meet with occasional
      losses. For my part, I should advise you to leave Spanish alone. It seems that you are doomed
      to fail in your ventures in the foreign securities:—first, your French scheme was totally
      ruined by the villany of your servant; and now your Spanish one, so far from enabling you to
      retrieve your losses, has increased them."  
  This long speech enabled Greenwood to recover from the shock which the announcement of a new
      reverse had produced.  
  "My dear Tomlinson," he said, "I am resolved to follow up my speculations in Spanish. The
      private information I received from an intimate friend of the Spanish Ambassador is correct—I
      am convinced it is; and I am sure that Queen Christina, by the advice of Espartero, will
      appropriate a sum to pay the interest on the passives. The announcement must be made in a few
      days. Of this I am certain. But all my resources are locked up for the present:—in fact, I do
      not hesitate to tell   you  , Tomlinson, that I have over-speculated of late.
      Still—remember—I   have   plenty of means remaining; but they are not instantly
      available."  
  "What, then, do you propose to do?" inquired the stock-broker.  
  "You have raised yourself during the past year to a confidential position in the City,
      Tomlinson," continued Greenwood: "and people no longer remember your bankruptcy."  
  "But I do," observed the stock-broker bitterly.  
  "Oh! that is nothing," exclaimed Greenwood. "I was about to say that you could probably
      borrow me fifteen or twenty thousand on my bond—say for three months."  
  "I doubt it," returned Tomlinson. "You have no mercantile establishment—you are known as a
      great speculator——"  
  "And as a great capitalist, I flatter myself," added Greenwood, playing with his watch-chain
      in the easy complacent manner which had so characterised him until lately.  
  "That you   were   a capitalist, there can be no doubt," said Tomlinson, in his usual
      quiet way; "but ill news fly fast—and your losses——"  
  "Are already known in the City, you mean?" exclaimed Greenwood, with difficulty concealing
      his vexation. "I care not a fig for that, Tomlinson. I have ample resources left; but, as I
      ere now observed, they are not immediately available."  
  "I understand you. It is well known that you accommodate the members of the aristocracy and
      heirs-expectant with loans; I presume that you have a mass of their bills, bonds, and
      acknowledgments? Now if you were to deposit them as collateral security, I know where I could
      obtain you an equivalent loan in twelve hours."  
  "Indeed!" ejaculated Greenwood: then, after a moment's pause, he said, "And you think there
      can be no difficulty in managing the business in that way?"  
  "None," answered the stock-broker.  
  Again Greenwood appeared to reflect.  
  "And yet," he observed, "all these pecuniary accommodations of which you spoke, are strictly
      confidential; and I dare not violate——"  
  "You know best, Greenwood," said Tomlinson, coolly. "At the same time, I can assure you that
      my friend will not betray you. The whole thing lies in a nut-shell: you deposit, say twenty
      thousand pounds' worth of securities, for a loan of that amount, to be repaid in three months;
      you redeem the documents by the day appointed, and none of your aristocratic debtors will be
      one whit the wiser. The transaction could only become known to them if you failed to refund
      the money, in which case the holder of the documents would send them into the market."  
  "I comprehend," said Greenwood. "Well—I have no objection to the arrangement. When will you
      ascertain whether your friend will advance the money?"  
  "This afternoon," returned Tomlinson; "and should the reply be in the affirmative—of which I
      have no doubt—I will make an appointment for four to-morrow."  
  "Be it so," cried Greenwood. "You will, perhaps, send me word between five and six this
      evening."  
  "I will not fail," said the stock-broker.  
  "Any thing new in the City?"  
  "Nothing particular."  
  "And your late cashier—what has become of him?" inquired Greenwood.  
  "He is still living in an obscure street in Bethnal-Green," was the answer. "The poor old
      man never stirs abroad; and his health is failing fast."  
  "Ah! it will be a good thing when he is gone altogether," said Greenwood. "If he had had to
      do with me, I should have shipped him to New Zealand or Van Diemen's Land long ago."  
  Tomlinson turned away in disgust, and took his leave.  
  Greenwood never moved from his seat until he heard the front door close behind the
      stock-broker.  
  Then he started from his chair, and all his apparent composure vanished.  
  Ha! ha! I have not bills nor bonds in my possession to the amount of three
      thousand!"—and he laughed wildly. "But I   will   have them, though—aye, and such ones as
      shall fully serve my purposes."  
  Then he paced the room in a singularly agitated manner.  
  "Yes—one more bold stroke, and I shall retrieve myself," he continued. "My good star cannot
      have altogether deserted me. No—no! These vicissitudes are only temporary. Accursed Lafleur!
      To think that he should have served me thus! Instead of proceeding to Paris—with the means of
      following up those schemes which I had combined so well, and in which I had already risked so
      much—but with such absolute certainties of immense gain,—instead of pursuing my career of
      success,—to be plundered—robbed at the last moment—and compelled to return to London to raise
      fresh funds! Then, when in four days I was prepared with the necessary sum once more—with
      another twenty thousand pounds—to receive letters which convinced me that the delay was fatal,
      and that all was lost! Yes—Fortune did indeed persecute me then! But I will be even with her
      yet. My information concerning the Spanish debt is accurate; and on that ground I can build a
      fortune far more colossal than the one I have lost. Shall I hesitate, then, in obtaining this
      money through Tomlinson's agency? No—no!"  
  Having thus buoyed himself up with those hopes which invariably urge on the gambler—whether
      at the actual gaming-table or in the public funds (for there is little difference in a moral
      light between the two modes of speculation),—to put down fresh stakes on the chance aimed at,
      Greenwood recovered his wonted calmness.  
  He busied himself in arranging his papers, and restoring neatness to his writing-table.  
  Thus passed the time until six o'clock, when Filippo entered the room with a letter.  
  It was from Tomlinson.  
  Greenwood tore it open: the contents were favourable. The stock-broker's friend had agreed
      to advance any sum up to twenty-five thousand pounds on the terms proposed, and had promised
      to observe the strictest secrecy in the transaction.  
  "The rest now depends upon myself!" ejaculated Greenwood. "Fortune has not altogether
      deserted me."  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXVI.   THE NEW CUT.  
  At nine o'clock on the same evening, Mr. Greenwood, muffled in a cloak, alighted from a
      hackney-cab in the Waterloo Road at the corner of the New Cut.  
  That wide thoroughfare which connects the Waterloo and Blackfriars' Roads, is one of the
      most busy and bustling, after its own fashion, in all London.  
  Nowhere are the shops of a more miscellaneous nature: nowhere are the pathways so thronged
      with the stalls and baskets of itinerant venders.  
  The ingenuity of those petty provision-dealers adapts the spoilt articles of the regular
      fishmongers and butchers to serviceable purposes in the free market of the New Cut. The fish
      is cut in slices and fried in an oil or butter whose rancid taste obviates the putrid flavour
      and smell of the comestible; and the refuse scraps from the butchers shops are chopped up to
      form a species of sausage-balls called "faggots." Then the grease, in which the racy slices of
      fish and savoury compounds of lights and liver have been alike cooked, serves to fry large
      rounds of bread, which, when thus prepared, are denominated "sop in the pan." Of course these
      culinary refinements are prepared by the venders in their own cellars or garrets hard by; but
      when conveyed to the miscellaneous market in the New Cut, the luxuries impart a greasy and
      sickening odour to the air.  
  It is perfectly wonderful to behold the various methods in which the poor creatures in that
      thoroughfare endeavour to obtain an honest livelihood; and although their proceedings elicit a
      smile—still, God pity them! they had better ply their strange trades thus than rob or beg!  
  There may be seen, for instance, a ragged urchin holding a bundle of onions in his hand, and
      shouting at the top of his shrill voice, "Here's a ha'porth!"—and, no matter how finely
      dressed the passer-by, he is sure to thrust the onions under his or her very nose, still
      vociferating, "Here's a ha'porth!" Poor boy! he thinks every one   must   want
      onions!  
  The immediate vicinity of the Victoria Theatre is infested with women who offer play-bills
      for sale, and who seem to fancy it impossible that the passers-by can be going elsewhere than
      to the play.  
  Here an orange-girl accosts a gentleman with two or three of the fruit in her hand, but with
      a significant look which gives the assurance that her real trade is of a less innocent
      nature:—there a poor woman with an array of children before her, offers lucifer matches, but
      silently appeals for alms.  
  A little farther on is a long barrow covered with toys; and a tall man without a nose,
      shouts at intervals, "Only a penny each! only a penny each!" Some of these gimcracks excite
      astonishment by their extreme cheapness; but they are chiefly made by the convicts in Holland,
      and are exported in large quantities to England.  
  In the middle of the road a man with stentorian voice offers "A hundred songs for a penny;"
      and, enumerating the list, he is sure to announce the "Return of the   H  admiral"
      amongst the rest.  
  Nearly opposite the Victoria Theatre there is an extensive cook's-shop; and around the
      window stands a hungry crowd feasting their eyes on the massive joints which are intended to
      feast the stomach.  
  In front of the butchers' shops the serving-men keep up a perpetual vociferation of "Buy!
      buy!"—a sort of running fire that denotes the earnestness with which competition is carried on
      amongst rivals in that delectable trade.  
  Perhaps a new baker's shop is opened in the New Cut; and then a large placard at the window
      announces that "a glass of gin will be given to every purchaser of a quartern loaf." The
      buyers do not pause to reflect that the price of the cordial is deducted from the weight of
      the bread.  
  The pawnbrokers' shops seem to drive a most bustling trade in the New Cut; and the fronts of
      their establishments present a more extensive and miscellaneous assortment of second-hand
      garments, blankets, handkerchiefs, and sheets, than is to be seen elsewhere.  
  The influx and efflux of people at the public-houses and gin-shops constitute not
      the least remarkable feature of that neighbourhood, where every thing is dirty and squalid,
      yet where every one appears able to purchase intoxicating liquor!  
  On the southern side of the New Cut there are a great many second-hand furniture shops, the
      sheds wherein the articles are principally exposed being built against the houses in a fashion
      which gives the whole, when viewed by the glaring of the gas-lights, the appearance of a
      bazaar or fair.  
  The New Cut is always crowded; but the multitude is not entirely in motion. Knots of men
      congregate here, and groups of women there—the posts at the corners of the alleys and courts,
      or the doors of the gin-shops, being the most favourite points of such assembly.  
  The edges of the pathways are not completely devoted to provision dealers. Penny peep-shows,
      emblazoned with a coloured drawing representing the last horrible murder,—itinerant quacks
      with "certain remedies for the toothache,"—stalls covered with odd numbers of cheap periodical
      publications,—old women seated on stools, behind little trays containing combs, papers of
      needles, reels of cotton, pack-thread, stay-laces, bobbin, and such-like articles,—men with
      cutlery to sell, and who flourish in their hands small knives with innumerable blades sticking
      out like the quills on a porcupine,—these are also prominent features in that strange
      market.  
  In some conspicuous place most likely stands a caravan, surmounted by a picture representing
      a colossal giant and a giantess to match, with an assurance in large letters that the
      originals may be seen inside:—then, as the eye wanders from the enormous canvass to the
      caravan itself, and compares their sizes, the mind is left in a pleasing state of surprise how
      even   one   of the Brobdingnag marvels—let alone   two  —could possibly stow itself
      away in that diminutive box.  
  Branching off from the New Cut, on either side, are numerous narrow streets,—or rather
      lanes, of a very equivocal reputation; their chief characteristics being houses of ill-fame,
      gin-shops, beer-shops, marine-store dealers, pawnbrokers, and barbers' establishments.  
  There are two facts connected with low neighbourhoods which cannot fail to attract the
      attention of even the most superficial observers in their wanderings amidst the mazes of the
      modern Babylon. The first is that the corner shops of nearly all the narrow and dirty streets
      are occupied by general dealers or people in the chandlery-line; and the second is that all
      the barbers' establishments are ornamented with a blind or placard conveying an assurance that
      each is "  the original shaving shop  ." Here, again, the mind enjoys the excitement of
      uncertainty, as in the matter of the caravan and the giants; for it is impossible to arrive at
      any satisfactory decision whether the aforesaid placard means you to infer that the shop to
      which it belongs was the   first   ever opened in the world for tonsorial purposes, or
      only the   first   that shed the light of its civilisation upon that especial
      neighbourhood. We may also observe that some of the proprietors of those establishments are
      not altogether unacquainted with the mysteries of puffing; inasmuch as we frequently read upon
      their shop-fronts the truly exhilarating and inspiring words, "  Hair-dresser to the
       Queen  ."  
  Such are the New Cut and its tributary lanes.  
  And it was now along the New Cut that Mr. Greenwood, enveloped in his cloak, was pursuing
      his way.  
  He scarcely noticed the turmoil, bustle, and business of that strange thoroughfare; for he
      was too much absorbed in his own meditations.  
  The truth was, that his affairs—once so gloriously prosperous—were now rendered desperate by
      various reverses; and he was about to seek a desperate means of retrieving them.  
  The reader cannot have failed to observe that the characters of George Montague Greenwood
      and Richard Markham stand out from our picture of London Life in strong contrast with each
      other; and it is not the less remarkable that while the former was rising rapidly to wealth,
      rank, and eminence, the latter was undergoing persecutions and sinking into comparative
      poverty. Now—at the epoch which we are describing—the tables seem to have turned; for while
      George Montague Greenwood is about to seek a desperate remedy for his desperate affairs,
      Richard Markham is leading a gallant army over the fertile plains of Castelcicala.  
  The former, then, may be deemed the personification of vice, the latter the representative
      of virtue.  
  They had chosen separate paths:—the sequel will fully demonstrate which of the two
      characters had selected the right one.  
  In the meantime we will continue our narrative.  
  Mr. Greenwood pursued his way, and, having crossed over to the southern side of the New Cut,
      repaired to a small row of private houses of which this famous thoroughfare can boast at the
      extremity joining the Blackfriars' Road.  
  There he stopped for a moment beneath a lamp to consult a memorandum in his pocket-book;
      and, having thereby refreshed his memory in respect to the address of which he was in search,
      he proceeded to knock at the door of a house close by.  
  A dirty servant-girl opened it just as far as a chain inside would permit; and protruding
      her smutty face, said, with strange abruptness, "Well, what is it?"  
  "Does Mr. Pennywhiffe live here?" demanded Greenwood.  
  "No—he don't; and, if he did, you wouldn't come in—'cos I know it's all your gammon,"
      returned that most uninteresting specimen of the female-domestic race.  
  "Why not?" exclaimed Greenwood, indignantly. "Whom do you take me for?"  
  "For what you are," replied the girl.  
  "And what am I, then?"  
  "Why—a execution, to be sure."  
  And, with these words, the girl banged the door in Mr. Greenwood's face.  
  "I must have taken down the wrong number in my memorandum," thought the Member of
      Parliament, as he turned away from the house, which was evidently in a state of siege. "This
      is very provoking!"  
  He then knocked at the door of the next house.  
  A woman with a child in her arms answered the summons; and, without waiting for any
      question, said abruptly, "You had better walk in."  
  Greenwood entered accordingly, supposing that the woman had overheard his inquiry next door,
      and that he had now found the abode of the person whom he sought.  
  The woman led the way into a back room, almost completely denuded of furniture,
      smelling awfully of tobacco-smoke, and very feebly lighted with a single candle that wanted
      snuffing.  
  In the midst of a dense cloud of that vapour, a man without a coat was sitting on a trunk;
      but the moment Greenwood entered, this individual threw down his clay-pipe, and advancing
      towards the visitor, exclaimed in a ferocious voice, "So you're going your rounds at this
      hour, are you? Well—I'm as far off from having the tin as I have been all along; and as I am
      going away to-morrow, I don't mind if I give you a good drubbing to teach you how to pester a
      gentleman with shabby bits of paper in future."  
  Thus speaking, the ferocious individual advanced towards Greenwood, squaring away like
      clock-work.  
  "Really, sir—you must labour under some mistake," exclaimed the Member of Parliament. "I
      have never called here before in my life."  
  "Then who the devil are you?" demanded the pugilistic phenomenon.  
  "That is quite another question," said Greenwood. "I——"  
  "Do you mean to tell me, then," exclaimed the man, "that you ain't the Water Rates?"  
  "No—I am not," answered Greenwood, unable to suppress a smile. "I thought that a Mr.
      Pennywhiffe lived here."  
  "Then he don't—that's all," was the rejoinder. "Blowed if I don't believe it's a plant,
      after all. Come—ain't you a bum? no lies, now!"  
  Greenwood turned indignantly away from the room, and left the house, muttering to himself,
      "This is most extraordinary! Every one appears to be in difficulties in this street."  
  He was not, however, disheartened: it was highly necessary for him to see the person of whom
      he was in search; and he accordingly knocked at another door.  
  "Tell him I'll send round the money to-morrow," shouted a masculine voice inside. "I know
      it's the collector, because he's rapping at every house."  
  Greenwood did not wait for the door to be opened; he knew very well that Mr. Pennywhiffe
      could not live there.  
  The fourth house at which he knocked was the right one.  
  A decent-looking servant girl replied in the affirmative to his inquiry; and he was
      forthwith conducted to a well-furnished room on the first floor, where he found Mr.
      Pennywhiffe seated at a table covered with papers.  
  This individual was about fifty years of age. In person he was short, thin, and by no means
      prepossessing in countenance. His eyes were deeply set, grey, and restless; and his forehead
      was contracted into a thousand wrinkles. He was dressed in a suit of black, and wore a white
      neckcloth—no doubt to enhance the respectability of his appearance. This was, however, a
      difficult task; for had he figured in the dock of a criminal tribunal, the jury would have had
      no trouble in coming to a verdict, a more hang-dog countenance being seldom seen, even in a
      city where the face is so often the mirror of the mind.  
  "Ah! Mr. Greenwood," exclaimed Mr. Pennywhiffe, rising to welcome his visitor; "this is an
      unexpected honour. What can I do for you? Pray be seated; and speak plainly. There's no
      listeners here."  
  "I require your aid in a most important business," answered Greenwood, taking a chair, and
      throwing back his cloak. "To-morrow I must raise twenty or twenty-five thousand pounds, for
      three or four months—upon bills—  good bills  , Mr. Pennywhiffe."  
  "To be deposited?" asked that individual.  
  "To be deposited," replied Greenwood.  
  "Shall you withdraw them in time?"  
  "Decidedly. I will convert the money I shall thereby raise into a hundred thousand,"
      exclaimed Greenwood.  
  "My commission will be heavy for such a business," observed Pennywhiffe; "and   that  ,
      you know is ready money."  
  "I am aware of it, and am come provided. Name the amount you require."  
  "Will two hundred hurt you?" said Pennywhiffe. "Remember—the affair is a serious one."  
  "You shall have two hundred pounds," exclaimed the Member of Parliament, laying his
      pocket-book upon the table.  
  "That is what I call coming to the point."  
  Mr. Pennywhiffe rose from his seat, and opening an iron safe, took thence a memorandum-book
      and a small tin box.  
  Returning to his seat, he handed the memorandum-book to Greenwood, saying, "There is my list
      of noblemen, wealthy gentlemen, and great mercantile firms,   whose names are familiar to
       me  . Choose which you will have; and make notes of the various sums the bills are to be
      drawn for. Let them be for the most part uneven ones, with fractions: it looks so much
      better."  
  While Greenwood was employed in examining the memorandum-book, which contained upwards of
      five hundred names of peers, and great landowners, in addition to those of the chief
      commercial firms of London, Birmingham, Liverpool, Manchester, Leeds, Sheffield, Glasgow, and
      other places,—besides several belonging to Paris, Lyons, Bordeaux, Havre, and Lille; Brussels,
      Amsterdam, Rotterdam, and Hamburgh; New York, the West Indian Islands, and Montreal; Calcutta,
      Bombay, and Madras;—while Mr. Greenwood, we say, was examining this strange register, and
      copying several of the best names of noblemen, gentlemen, and merchants, upon a slip of paper,
      Mr Pennywhiffe opened his tin-case.  
  The contents thereof were numerous paid checks, and bills of exchange, respectively bearing
      the signatures of the persons or firms whose names were entered in the memorandum-book.  
  How Mr. Pennywhiffe became possessed of such important documents,—which, seeing that they
      had all been duly honoured at maturity, ought to have remained in the hands of those who took
      them up,—was a mystery which he kept to himself. Whether he had collected them by degrees, or
      had obtained them in a heap by robbery, or any other means, he never condescended to acquaint
      his clients.  
  "I have chosen eleven names," said Greenwood; "and have appended to them the various sums
      for which I require the bills to be drawn. The aggregate is twenty-three thousand two hundred
      and seventeen pounds, nine shillings, and sevenpence halfpenny."  
  "A good total,   that  ," observed Mr. Pennywhiffe,—"an excellent total—sounds uncommon
      well. Nothing could be better. Am I to provide the stamps?"  
  "If you please. I will pay you extra for them."  
  iron safe, and returned to his seat with a small paste-board box, long and
      narrow, and containing a vast number of bill-stamps adapted to sums of all amounts. As the
      usual formula of such documents was printed (though in various ways, they having been procured
      at different stationers' shops) the process of filling them up was by no means a tedious
      one.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  But now the ingenuity of Mr. Pennywhiffe mainly exhibited itself. Each bill was filled up
      with a different ink and a different pen; and so skilful a caligrapher was he, that the most
      astute judge of writing could not possibly have perceived that they were all written by the
      same hand. Then, by the aid of red ink, a few flourishes, and little circles containing
      initial letters or figures as if each document corresponded with some particular entry in some
      particular leger or bill-book, the papers speedily assumed a very business-like
      appearance.  
  And now the most difficult and delicate part of the entire process was to commence—the
      signatures. But Mr. Pennywhiffe went to work with the air of one who fully understood what he
      was about; and with the originals before him as a copy, he perfected acceptance after
      acceptance in so masterly a manner, that Greenwood, when he compared the fictitious signatures
      with the genuine, was astounded at the caligraphic proficiency of that man whose dangerous
      agency he was now rendering available to his purposes.  
  "So far, all goes well," said Mr. Pennywhiffe.  
  "The bills are excellent in every point save one," observed Greenwood.  
  "Which is that?" demanded the caligrapher.  
  "They look   too new  —the paper is too clean."  
  "I know it," returned Mr. Pennywhiffe; "but the process is not entirely complete."  
  He rose and threw a quantity of small coal upon the fire, so as to smother the flame, and
      create a dense smoke. He then passed each bill several times through the smoke, until the
      documents acquired a slightly dingy hue. Lastly, he placed them between the leaves of a
      portfolio scented with musk, so as to take off the odour of the smoke; and the entire process
      was terminated.  
  to the aggregate amount of the two hundred pounds promised, and the price of the
      stamps; and in exchange he received the bills for twenty-three thousand two hundred and
      seventeen pounds, nine shillings, and sevenpence halfpenny.  
  "This seems to be a most extraordinary neighbourhood, Mr. Pennywhiffe," said Greenwood, as
      he placed the bills in his pocket-book. "I knocked by mistake at three houses before I came to
      yours, and the inmates of each seemed to be in difficulties."  
  "No doubt of it, my dear sir. This part of London swarms with members of the Swell Mob,
      broken-down tradesmen, fraudulent bankrupts, insolvents playing at hide-and-seek with the
      sheriff's-officers, railway projectors, and swindlers of all kinds. I have got a very queer
      kind of a lodger in my attic: he has no visible means of living, but is out nearly all day
      long; and he dresses uncommonly well—gold chain—polished boots—figured silk waistcoat—and so
      forth. He only pays me—or ought to pay me—five shillings a week for his furnished bed-room;
      and he is six months in arrears. But what is more remarkable still, I don't even know his
      name; and he never receives any letters, nor has any friends to call. He is about thirty-six
      or thirty-eight years old, a good-looking fellow enough, and an Irishman."  
  "Perhaps he also is some railway projector," said Mr. Greenwood, rising to take his
      departure.  
  At this moment a double knock at the front-door was heard.  
  "That must be my lodger," exclaimed Mr. Pennywhiffe.  
  Urged by curiosity to catch a glimpse of the mysterious gentleman alluded to, Greenwood
      hurried on his cloak, took leave of the caligrapher, and left the room.  
  On the stairs he met the lodger, who was ascending to his attic, with a brass candlestick,
      containing an inch of the commonest candle, in his hand.  
  The moment he and Greenwood thus encountered each other, an ejaculation of surprise issued
      from the lips of each.  
  "Hush! not a word!" said the gentleman, placing his fore-finger upon his lip. "And, of
      course, Greenwood," he continued, in a whisper, "you will never mention   this   to a
      soul."  
  "Never—on my honour!" answered Greenwood.  
  They then shook hands, and parted—the gentleman continuing his way to the attic, and
      Greenwood hastening to leave the house.  
  "Wonders will never cease!" thought the latter, as he proceeded towards the cab-stand near
      Rowland Hill's chapel in the Blackfriars Road: "who would have thought of one of the Irish
      Members of Parliament living in an attic in the New Cut?"  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXVII.   THE FORGED BILLS.  
  At half-past four o'clock on the following afternoon, Ellen Monroe was in the immediate
      vicinity of the Bank of England.  
  She had been to receive a small sum of money which an old debtor of her father's, residing
      in Birchin Lane, had written to state that he was in a condition to pay; and she was now on
      her return to Markham Place.  
  The evenings of January are obscure, if not quite dark, at that hour; and the lamps were
      lighted.  
  As she was proceeding along Lothbury, Greenwood suddenly passed her. He was walking rapidly,
      in a pre-occupied manner, and did not perceive her.  
  But she beheld   him  ; and she turned to speak to him; for in spite of all the
      injuries which her parent, her benefactor Richard, and herself had sustained at his hands, he
      was still the father of her child!  
  Scarcely had she thus turned, when he drew his handkerchief from his pocket—still hurrying
      on towards Tokenhouse Yard.  
  Ellen quickened her pace; but in a few moments her foot encountered an object on the
      pavement.  
  She stooped, and picked it up.  
  It was a pocket-book.  
  Conceiving that Greenwood might have dropped it, as she had found it on the very spot where
      she had seen him take his handkerchief from his pocket, she ran in the direction which she
      supposed him to have pursued; but as, in the mean time, he had turned into the narrow alley
      called Tokenhouse Yard, and as she continued her way along Lothbury towards Throgmorton
      Street, she did not of course overtake him.  
  Finding that her search after him was unavailing, she determined to examine the contents of
      the pocket-book, and ascertain if it really did belong to him; in which case, she resolved to
      proceed straight to Spring Gardens, and restore it to him.  
  Retracing her steps along Lothbury, she entered Cateaton Street; and turning into the Old
      Jewry, which was almost deserted, she stopped beneath the light of a lamp to open the
      pocket-book.  
  It contained several letters, addressed to "  G. M. Greenwood, Esq.  , M.P.;" and thus
      her doubts were cleared up at once. But as she was thus investigating the interior of the
      pocket-book, her eye fell upon a number of bills of exchange, all drawn and endorsed by Mr.
      Greenwood, and accepted for large sums by noblemen, well-known landowners, and eminent
      merchants. A rapid glance over these documents convinced Ellen that the aggregate amount which
      they represented could not fall far short of twenty-five thousand pounds; for, in addition to
      the fictitious bills obtained from Pennywhiffe, Greenwood had placed in his pocket-book
      several genuine ones which he legitimately possessed.  
  Miss Monroe's scrutiny did not altogether occupy a minute; and, carefully securing the
      pocket-book about her person, she hurried towards Cheapside, where she entered a cab,
      directing the driver to take her to Spring Gardens.  
  She did not forget Greenwood's former conduct in having her carried away to his house in the
      country; but she did not apprehend any ill-usage at his hands in a part of London where
      succour would be so readily obtained as in Spring Gardens. It was therefore without hesitation
      that she resolved to proceed direct to his own dwelling in that quarter.  
  In due time the vehicle stopped at Greenwood's house in Spring Gardens.  
  With a beating heart Ellen knocked at the door, which was almost immediately opened by
      Filippo.  
  "Ah! Miss Monroe!" he exclaimed, as the light of the hall-lamp fell upon her beautiful
      countenance.  
  "Yes—it is I at Mr. Greenwood's house," she answered, with a smile: "is he at home?"  
  "No, Miss—he has gone into the City; but he will be back at six o'clock at the latest."  
  "Then I will wait for him," said Ellen.  
  Filippo conducted her up stairs.  
  In the window of the staircase still stood the beautiful model of the Diana, holding a lamp
      in its hand,—that model which was the image of her own faultless form.  
  On the landing-place, communicating with the drawing-room, was also the marble statue, the
      bust of which was sculptured in precise imitation of her own.  
  And, when she entered the drawing-room, the first object which met her eyes was the picture
      of Venus rising from the ocean, surrounded by nereids and nymphs,—that Venus which was a
      faithful likeness of herself!  
  Oh! how many phases of her existence did these permanent representations of her matchless
      beauty bring back to her memory!  
  When Filippo left her, and she found herself alone, she fell upon a sofa, and gave way to a
      violent flood of tears.  
  Then she felt relieved; and she began to ask herself wherefore she had come thither? Was it
      because she was glad to have found an excuse for calling upon him who was the father of her
      child? was it because she was anxious to receive his thanks—from his own lips—for restoring to
      him his pocket-book? She scarcely knew.  
  Half an hour passed in reflections of this nature—reflections which branched off in so many
      different ways, and converged to no satisfactory point—when a cab suddenly drove up to the
      house.  
  In another minute hasty steps ascended the stairs—they approached the drawing-room—and
      Greenwood rushed in, banging the door furiously behind him.  
  "My God! what have I done?" he exclaimed, frantically—for he did not immediately perceive
      Ellen, whom a screen concealed from his view. "The pocket-book is lost—gone! I am
      ruined—should those forged bills——"  
  He said no more, but threw himself upon a chair, and buried his face in his hands.  
  Ellen instantly comprehended it all:—the bills which she had seen in the pocket-book were
      forgeries!  
  Rapid as lightning a train of new reflections passed through her brain:—a project suggested
      itself;—she hesitated for a moment—but only for a moment:—she thought of her child—and she was
      resolved.  
  Assuming all her calmness, and calculating in an instant all the chances of her scheme, she
      rose from the sofa, and slowly approached the chair on which Greenwood was seated.  
  He heard a step in the room, and raised his eyes.  
  "Ellen!" he exclaimed, starting back in surprise.  
  She murmured a   Christian name  —but it was not   George  .  
  "Call me not   that  , Ellen!" cried Greenwood, fiercely: "the time is not come! But
      tell me," he added, speaking thickly, and at the same instant casting upon her a glance which
      seemed to pierce her inmost soul,—"tell me—were you here—in this room—when I came in?"  
  "I was," answered Ellen, gazing, in her turn, fixedly upon him.  
  "And you heard——"  
  "I heard every word you uttered," continued Miss Monroe, keeping her eyes still bent upon
      him.  
  "Ah! then you know——"  
  "  That you have committed forgery  ," added Ellen, in an emphatic tone; "  and that
       you are ruined  !"  
  "Damnation!" ejaculated Greenwood. "What did you come for? why are you here? To gloat over
      my falling fortunes—to make yourself merry at my ruin—to taunt me with the past—to laugh at me
      in my adversity—to——"  
  "Then it   is   true," thought Ellen, within herself: "these bills   are  
      forgeries—and he is in my power.—No," she exclaimed aloud; "such was not my object."  
  "Then, go—leave me—depart!" cried Greenwood, frantically. "I am in no humour to listen to
      you now! But, Ellen," he added, suddenly becoming cool—desperately cool:—"tell me—speak—you
      will not betray me?"  
  "No—that is, on   one   condition," answered Ellen.  
  "One condition!" repeated Greenwood: "name it!"  
  "That you make me your wife," was the steady reply.  
  "My wife!" exclaimed Greenwood, laughing hysterically. "Do you know whose wife you would
      become?—the wife of a forger! Have you not learnt that dread secret? But, perhaps, it is to
      mock me that you offer to become my wife! Oh! I understand you full well, Ellen! When I was
      rich and beyond the reach of the law, I would not marry you;—and now you mean me to comprehend
      that since I am ruined, and every moment in danger of being dragged to a station-house,
         you   would scorn the alliance! The jest is good:—no—the revenge is just! But it is
      not the less bitter to me, Ellen!"  
  "By heavens, you wrong me!" cried Ellen. "Listen with calmness—with composure—if you
      can!"  
  "I cannot, Ellen—I cannot! I am mad! A few months—nay, even a few weeks ago, I was
      happy—wealthy—prosperous:—now I am ruined—miserable—lost! Oh! the grand prospects that were so
      lately open before me!"  
  "Again I say, listen. All is not so bad as you imagine," said the young lady, in a hasty
      tone.  
  "What do you mean, Ellen? what   can   you mean?" he exclaimed, bewildered. "Do you not
      understand the nature of a forgery—the consequences which it entails? True—I did not
      perpetrate the forgery with my own hands;—but the bills are all drawn—all endorsed by me! Oh!
      it is dreadful—it is terrible!"  
  "I will not keep you any longer in suspense," said Ellen. "Your pocket-book is found——"  
  "Found!" repeated Greenwood, electrified by that word, and not knowing whether it imported
      good or evil to him: "found! Did you say——"  
  "Yes—found," answered Miss Monroe;—"and by me!"  
  "By you, Ellen?" cried Greenwood. "No—it is impossible!"  
  "How, then, should I know that you had lost a pocket-book?" asked the young lady.  
  "True! And you have found it? Oh! then I am saved—I am saved! Give it to me, Ellen—give it
      to me!"  
  And he advanced towards her, with out-stretched hands.  
  save me from disgrace—to give a father's name to the child who was then as yet
      unborn. And you refused my supplication—you turned a deaf ear to my agonising entreaties. Oh!
      I remember that scene but too well. You would not do me justice—and I told you that you might
      live to repent your cruelty towards me!"  
  "What! you will now avenge your alleged wrongs!" cried Greenwood, his countenance becoming
      livid with mingled fear and rage: "you will deliver me up to justice? No—I will tear the
      pocket-book from you—I will destroy the proofs of my folly—my crime; and then——but why should
      I waste time in idle words like these; I must act! Give me the book!"  
  And he rushed towards her, as a tiger springs upon its victim.  
  But Ellen, light as the fawn, glided away from him, and took such a position that a table
      was between them, and a bell-pull within her reach.  
  "Dare to attempt violence towards me," she exclaimed, "and I summon your servants. Then—in
      their presence—I will proclaim their master a forger! Provoke me not—my spirit is roused—and
      your fate hangs upon a thread!"  
  "Damnation!" cried Greenwood, grinding his teeth with rage. "Can nothing move you,
      Ellen?"  
  "Yes—the   one condition   that I ere now named," she answered, drawing herself up to
      her full height, and assuming all the influence of her really queenly beauty.  
  "Agreed!" ejaculated Greenwood. "Give me the pocket-book—I take God to witness that I will
      make you my wife within a week from this day."  
  "You regard an oath no more than a mere promise," replied Ellen, calmly, and with a slightly
      satirical curl of the lip.  
  "I will give you the promise in writing, Ellen," persisted Greenwood, urged to
      desperation.  
  "Neither will   that   satisfy me," said the young lady. "When our hands are joined at
      the altar, I will restore you the proofs of your crime; and God grant," she added solemnly,
      "that this peril which you have incurred may serve as a warning to you against future risks of
      the same fearful kind."  
  "You have no faith in my word—you have no confidence in my written promise, Ellen," cried
      Greenwood: "how, then, can you be anxious to have me as a husband?"  
  "That my child may not grow up with the stain of illegitimacy upon him—that he may not learn
      to despise his mother," answered Ellen, emphatically; "for   he   need never know the
      precise date of our union."  
  "But you know, Ellen," again remonstrated Greenwood, "that there are circumstances which act
      as an insuperable barrier to this marriage. Could you tell your father that you have espoused
      the man who ruined him—ruined Richard,—and also admit, at the same time, that this man was the
      father of your child! Consider, Ellen—reflect——"  
  "There is no need of consideration—no need of reflection," interrupted Miss Monroe. "I care
      not about revealing the fact of my marriage for the present. In a few years—when our child can
      comprehend his true position,—  then   it would be necessary to declare myself a
      wife."  
  "But there is another difficulty, Ellen," persisted Greenwood: "my name——"  
  "Let us be wedded privately—in some suburban church, where you stand no chance of being
      recognised as George Montague Greenwood, and where your   right name   may be fearlessly
      inscribed upon the register."  
  "A woman who is determined to gain her point, annihilates all difficulties," muttered
      Greenwood to himself.  
  "How do   you   decide?" asked Ellen. "Remember that   I   am firm. I have these
      alternatives before me—either to obtain a father's name for my child, or to avenge the wrongs
      of my own parent and myself. Consent to make me your wife, and the proofs of your crime shall
      be returned to you at the altar: refuse, and to-morrow morning I will prepare the way for
      vengeance."  
  "Ellen, I consent to your proposal," said Greenwood, in a tone of deep humiliation; "but
      upon condition that our marriage shall never be proclaimed until that day, when——"  
  "I understand you; and I cheerfully agree to the proposal," interrupted Miss Monroe. "You
      can believe   my   word:—besides, you   must   know that I also should have reasons
      to conceal our union, until you chose to declare your real name."  
  "Then be it as you propose, Ellen. To-morrow morning, early, I will procure a special
      license, and we will be united at Hackney. You can meet me at the church precisely at ten
      o'clock in the morning: I will have every thing in readiness. But whom will you ask to
      accompany you?"  
  "Marian—the faithful servant who has been so devoted to my interests," answered Miss
      Monroe.  
  "I think that I should prefer the wife of that surgeon—Mrs. Wentworth, I mean—as the witness
      to our union," said Greenwood. "I dislike the idea of domestics being entrusted with important
      secrets. Besides, Mrs. Wentworth has never seen me—knows not that I am passing by the name of
      Greenwood—and, in a word, is a lady."  
  "Be it as you will in this instance," returned Ellen. "Mrs. Wentworth shall accompany me—I
      can rely upon her."  
  She then rang the bell.  
  "What do you require, Ellen?" asked Greenwood, alarmed by this movement on her part.  
  "Merely to ensure the presence of one of your servants, as I pass from this spot to the door
      of the room," replied Ellen. "You can give him some order to avert suspicion."  
  Filippo made his appearance; and Ellen then took leave of Mr. Greenwood, as if nothing
      peculiar had occurred between them.  
  Oh! with what joy—with what fervid, intoxicating joy—did she return to Markham Place! She
      had subdued   him   whose cold, calculating, selfish heart was hitherto unacquainted with
      honourable concessions;—she had conquered him—reduced him to submit to her terms—imposed her
      own conditions!  
  Never—never before had she embraced her child with such pride—such undiluted happiness as on
      that evening. And never had she herself appeared more beautiful—more enchantingly lovely! Her
      lips were wreathed in smiles—her eyes beamed with the transports of hope, triumph, and
      maternal affection—a glow of ineffable bliss animated her countenance—her swelling bosom
      heaved with rapture.  
  "You are very late, my dear child," said Mr. Monroe, when she took her seat at the
      tea-table: "I began to grow uneasy."  
  "I was detained a long time at the office of your debtor," answered Ellen.
      "To-morrow morning I intend to pay a visit to Mrs. Wentworth, and shall invite myself to
      breakfast with her. So you need not be surprised, dear father," she added, with a sweet smile,
      "if I do not make my appearance at your table."  
  "You please me in pleasing yourself, dear Ellen. Moreover, I am delighted that you should
      cultivate Mrs. Wentworth's acquaintance. Most sincerely do I hope," continued Mr. Monroe,
      "that we shall have letters from Richard to-morrow. The communications which we have already
      received are not satisfactory to my mind. God grant that he may be by this time safe in
      Naples—if not on his way to England."  
  "Alas! the enterprise has been a most unfortunate one for him!" returned Ellen, a cloud
      passing over her countenance. "I understand his noble disposition so well, that I am convinced
      he deeply feels the defeat of Ossore."  
  We must observe that the news of our hero's success at Estella had not yet reached
      England.  
  "It will be a happy day for us all," said Mr. Monroe, after a pause, "when Richard once more
      sets foot in his own home—for I love him as if he were my son."  
  "And I as if he were my brother," added Ellen;—"yes—  my brother  ," she repeated, with
      strange emphasis upon these words.  
  On the following morning, a few minutes before ten o'clock, a post-chaise stopped at the
      gate of the parish church of Hackney; and Mr. Greenwood alighted.  
  He was pale; and the quivering of his lip denoted the agitation of his mind.  
  The clock was striking ten, when a hackney-coach reached the same point.  
  Greenwood hastened to the door, and assisted Mrs. Wentworth and Ellen Monroe to descend the
      steps.  
  As he handed out the latter, he said, in a hurried whisper, "You have the pocket-book with
      you?"  
  "I have," answered Ellen.  
  The party then proceeded to the church, the drivers of the vehicles being directed to await
      their return at a little distance, so as not to attract the notice of the inhabitants.  
  The clergyman and the clerk awaited the arrival of the nuptial party.  
  The ceremony commenced—proceeded—and terminated.  
  Ellen was now a wife!  
  Her husband imprinted a kiss upon her pale forehead; and at the same moment she handed him
      the pocket-book.  
  In a few minutes the marriage-certificate was in her possession.  
  Drawing her husband aside, she said, "Let me now implore you—for your own sake—for the sake
      of your child—if not for   mine  —to abstain from those courses——"  
  "Ellen," interrupted Greenwood, "do not alarm yourself on that head. My friend the Marquis
      of Holmesford lent me ten thousand pounds last evening; and with that sum I will retrieve my
      falling fortunes. Yes—you shall yet bear a great name. Ellen," he added, his countenance
      lighting up with animation; "  a name that shall go down to posterity!   But, tell me—has
      your father received any tidings from Richard?"  
  "None since those of which I wrote to you. We are not yet aware whether he be in safety, or
      not."  
  "You will write to me the moment you receive any fresh communication?"  
  "Rest assured that I shall not forget that duty."  
  "And now, Ellen, we must pass the day together. We will spend our honeymoon of twenty-four
      hours at Richmond. Mrs. Wentworth can return home, and send word to your father that she means
      to keep you with her until to-morrow morning."  
  "If you command me, it is my duty to obey," replied Ellen.  
  "I do—I do," answered Greenwood, earnestly. "You are now mine—the circumstances which led to
      our union shall be forgotten—and I shall think of you only as my beautiful wife."  
  "Oh! if this be really true!" murmured Ellen, pressing his hand fervently, and regarding him
      with affection—for he was the father of her child!  
  "It   is   true," answered Greenwood;—but his bride perceived not how much of sensual
      passion prompted him on the present occasion. "I know that you have been faithful to me—that
      the hope of one day becoming my wife has swayed your conduct. Of   that   I have had
      proofs."  
  "Proofs!" repeated Ellen, with mingled surprise and joy.  
  "Yes—proofs. Do you not remember the Greek Brigand at the masquerade, where you met and so
      justly upbraided that canting hypocrite, Reginald Tracy?"  
  "I do. But that Greek Brigand——"  
  "Was myself!" replied Greenwood.  
  "You!" exclaimed Ellen, with a smile of satisfaction.  
  "Yes: and I overheard every sentence you uttered. But we may not tarry here longer: speak to
      Mrs. Wentworth, that she send a proper excuse to your father; and let us depart."  
  Ellen hastened to the vestry where the surgeon's wife was seated near a cheerful fire; and
      the arrangement desired by Greenwood was soon made.  
  The party then proceeded to the vehicles.  
  Mrs. Wentworth bade the newly-married couple adieu, having faithfully promised to retain
      their secret inviolate; and Greenwood handed her into the hackney-coach.  
  He and Ellen entered the post-chaise; and while the surgeon's wife retraced her way to her
      own abode, the bride and bridegroom hastened to Richmond.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXVIII.   THE BATTLES OF PIACERE AND ABRANTANI.  
  We must now request our readers to accompany us once more to Castelcicala.  
  In an incredibly short time, and by dint of a forced march which put the mettle of his
      troops to a severe test,—at which, however, they did not repine, for they were animated by the
      dauntless courage and perseverance of their commander.—Richard Markham arrived beneath the
      walls of Villabella.  
  belonging to the national militia, and armed and equipped ready for active
      service.  
  The daring exploit which had made him master of Estella, had created an enthusiasm in his
      favour which he himself and all his followers considered to be an augury of the final success
      of the Constitutional Cause; and in every village—in every hamlet through which his army had
      passed, was he welcomed with the most lively demonstration of joy.  
  When, early on the morning of the 1st of January, his advanced guard emerged from the woods
      which skirted the southern suburb of Villabella, the arrival of the Constitutional Army was
      saluted by the roar of artillery from the ramparts; and almost at the same moment the
      tri-coloured flag was hoisted on every pinnacle and every tower of the great manufacturing
      town.  
  "We have none but friends there!" exclaimed Richard, as he pointed towards Villabella. "God
      grant that we may have no blood to shed elsewhere."  
  The army halted beneath the walls of Villabella, for Richard did not deem it proper to enter
      those precincts until formally invited to do so by the corporation.  
  He, however, immediately despatched a messenger to the mayor, with certain credentials which
      had been supplied him by the Committee of Administration at Estella; and in the course of an
      hour the municipal authorities of Villabella came forth in procession to welcome him.  
  The mayor was a venerable man of eighty years of age, but with unimpaired intellects, and a
      mind still young and vigorous.  
  Alighting from his horse, Richard hastened forward to meet him.  
  "Let me embrace you, noble young man!" exclaimed the mayor. "Your fame has preceded you—and
      within those walls," he added, turning and pointing towards Villabella, "there breathes not a
      soul opposed to the sacred cause which heaven has sent you to direct."  
  Then the mayor embraced Richard in presence of the corporation—in presence of the
      Constitutional Army; and the welkin rang with shouts of enthusiastic joy.  
  The formal invitation to enter Villabella was now given; and Markham issued the necessary
      orders.  
  The corporation led the way: next came the General, attended by his staff; and after him
      proceeded the long lines of troops, their martial weapons gleaming in the morning sun.  
  The moment our hero passed the inner drawbridge, the roar of cannon was renewed upon the
      ramparts; and the bells in all the towers commenced a merry peal.  
  As at Estella, the windows were thronged with faces—the streets were crowded with
      spectators—and every testimonial of an enthusiastic welcome awaited the champion of
      Constitutional Liberty.  
  Then resounded, too, myriads of voices, exclaiming, "Long live Alberto"—"Long live the
      General!"—"Down with the Tyrant!"—"Death to the Austrians!"  
  In this manner the corporation, Markham, and his staff, proceeded to the Town-Hall, while
      the troops defiled off to the barracks, where the garrison—a thousand in number—welcomed them
      as brethren-in-arms.  
  All the officers of the troops in Villabella, moreover—with the exception of the
      colonel-commandant,—declared in favour of the Constitutionalists; and even that superior
      functionary manifested no particular hostility to the movement, but simply declared that
      "although he could never again bear arms in favour of the Grand Duke, he would not fight
      against him."  
  When he had transacted business at the Town-Hall, and countersigned a proclamation which the
      municipality drew up, recognising the Committee of Administration of Estella, and constituting
      itself a permanent body invested with similar functions,—Markham repaired to the barracks.  
  Thence he immediately despatched couriers to the excellent banker at Pinalla, to the mayor
      of Estella, and to the Committee of Government at Montoni.  
  He then issued an address to his army, complimenting it upon the spirit and resolution with
      which the forced march to Villabella had been accomplished; reminding it that every thing
      depended upon the celerity of its movements, so as to prevent a concentration of any great
      number of adverse troops, before the Constitutional force could be augmented sufficiently to
      cope with them; and finally ordering it to prepare to resume the march that afternoon at three
      o'clock.  
  By means of new volunteers and a portion of the garrison of Villabella, Richard found his
      army increased to nearly four thousand men.  
  At the head of this imposing force he set out once more, at the time indicated, and
      commenced another rapid march in the direction of Piacere.  
  On the ensuing evening—the 2d of January—the towers of that important city broke upon the
      view of the van-guard of the Constitutionalists.  
  The commandant of the garrison of Piacere was an old and famous officer—General
      Giustiniani,—devoted to the cause of the Grand Duke, and holding in abhorrence every thing
      savouring of liberal opinions.  
  Markham was aware of this fact; and he felt convinced that Piacere would not fall into his
      hands without bloodshed. At the same time, he determined not to pass it by, because it would
      serve as a point of centralisation for the troops of Veronezzi and Terano (both being seats of
      the military administration of Captains-General), and moreover afford the enemy a means of
      cutting off all communication between himself on the one hand, and Villabella and Estella on
      the other.  
  Certain of being attacked, Markham lost no time in making the necessary arrangements. He
      ordered the van-guard to halt, until the troops in the rear could come up, and take their
      proper places; and he planted his artillery upon a hill which commanded almost the entire
      interval between his army and the city.  
  Nor were his precautions vainly taken; for in a short time a large force was seen moving
      towards him from Piacere, the rays of the setting sun irradiating their glittering bayonets
      and the steel helmets of a corps of cuirassiers.  
  In another quarter of an hour the enemy was so near as to induce Richard to order his
      artillery to open a fire upon them: but General Giustiniani, who commanded in person, led his
      forces on with such rapidity, that the engagement speedily commenced.  
  superior in other respects—for it comprised a large body of cuirassiers, a
      regiment of grenadiers, a corps of rifles, and twenty field-pieces: it was, moreover fresh and
      unwearied, whereas the Constitutionalists were fatigued with a long march.  
  For a few minutes a murderous fire was kept up on both sides; but Richard led his troops to
      close quarters, and charged the cuirassiers at the head of his cavalry.  
  At the same time the Cingani, in obedience to an order which he had sent their chiefs,
      turned the right flank of the rifles by a rapid and skilful manœuvre, and so isolated them
      from their main body as to expose them to the artillery upon the hill.  
  Excited, as it were to desperation, by the conduct of our hero, the Constitutional cavalry
      performed prodigies of valour; and after an hour's hard fighting in the grey twilight,
      succeeded in breaking the hitherto compact body of cuirassiers.  
  Leaving his cavalry to accomplish the rout of the enemy's horse-guards, Richard flew to the
      aid of his right wing, which was sorely pressed by the grenadiers, and was breaking into
      disorder.  
  "Constitutionalists!" he cried: "your brethren are victorious elsewhere: abandon not the
      field! Follow me—to conquest or to death!"  
  These words operated with electrical effect; and the Constitutional infantry immediately
      rallied under the guidance of their youthful leader.  
  Then the battle was renewed: darkness fell upon the scene; but still the murderous conflict
      was prolonged. At length Richard engaged hand to hand with the colonel of the grenadiers, who
      was well mounted on a steed of enormous size. But this combat was short; the officer's sword
      was dashed from his hand; and he became our hero's prisoner.  
  These tidings spread like wild-fire; and the enemy fell into confusion. Their retreat became
      general: Richard followed up his advantage; and Giustiniani's army was completely routed.  
  The Constitutionalists pressed close upon them; and Richard, once more putting himself at
      the head of his cavalry, pursued the fugitives up to the very walls of Piacere—not with the
      murderous intention of exterminating them, but with a view to secure as many prisoners as
      possible, and prevent the enemy from taking refuge in the city.  
  At the very gates of Piacere he overtook General Giustiniani, and, after a short conflict,
      made him captive.  
  He then retraced his steps to the scene of his victory, and took the necessary steps for
      concentrating his forces once more.  
  That night, the Constitutionalists bivouacked in the plains about a mile from Piacere.  
  Early in the morning of the 3d of January, the results of the brilliant triumph of the
      preceding evening were known. Eight hundred of the enemy lay dead upon the field; and fifteen
      hundred had been taken prisoners. The Constitutionalists had lost three hundred men, and had
      nearly as many wounded.  
  Scarcely had the sun risen on the scene of carnage, when messengers arrived from Piacere,
      stating that the corporation had declared in favour of the Constitutionalists, and bearing
      letters from the municipal authorities to Markham. Those documents assured our hero that the
      sympathies of the great majority of the inhabitants were in favour of his cause; and that deep
      regret was experienced at the waste of life which had been occasioned by the obstinacy and
      self-will of General Giustiniani. Those letters also contained an invitation for him to enter
      the city, where the tri-coloured flag was already hoisted.  
  These welcome tidings were soon made known to the whole army, and were received with shouts
      of joy and triumph.  
  Richard returned a suitable answer to the delegates, and then sought General Giustiniani. To
      this commander he offered immediate liberty, on condition that he would not again bear arms
      against the Constitutionalists. The offer was spurned with contempt. Markham accordingly
      despatched him, under a strong escort, to Villabella.  
  At nine o'clock Markham entered Piacere, amidst the ringing of bells, the thunder of cannon,
      and the welcome of the inhabitants. The corporation presented him with the keys, which he
      immediately returned to the mayor, saying, "I am the servant, sir, and not the master of the
      Castelcicalans."  
  This reply was speedily circulated through Piacere, and increased the enthusiasm of the
      inhabitants in his favour.  
  Richard determined to remain until the following morning in this city. Having seen his
      troops comfortably lodged in the barracks, he adopted his usual course of despatching
      couriers, with accounts of his proceedings, to Villabella, Estella, Pinalla, and Montoni. Need
      we say that every letter which he addressed to the worthy banker contained brief
      notes—necessarily brief—to be sent by way of Naples, to Mr. Monroe and Isabella?  
  Having performed these duties, Richard repaired to the Town-Hall, where he countersigned a
      decree appointing the municipal body a Committee of Administration; and a proclamation to that
      effect was speedily published.  
  He next, with the most unwearied diligence, adopted measures to increase his army, for he
      resolved to march with as little delay as possible towards Abrantani; where a strong Austrian
      and Castelcicalan force was lying, under the command of the Captain-General of that province.
      At that point Richard well knew an important struggle must take place—a struggle in comparison
      with which all that he had hitherto done was as nothing.  
  But his endeavours in obtaining recruits were attended with great success. Volunteers
      flocked to the barracks; and the city-arsenal was well provided with all the uniforms, arms,
      ammunition, and stores that were required.  
  On the west of Piacere was a vast plain, on which Richard determined to review his troops at
      day-break, and thence march direct upon Abrantani.  
  The order was accordingly issued; and half an hour before the sun rose, the army defiled
      through the western gates. Nearly all the inhabitants repaired to the plain, to witness the
      martial spectacle; and many were the bright eyes that glanced with admiration—and even a
      softer feeling—at the handsome countenance of that young man whose name now belonged to
      history.  
  Colonel Cossario, the second in command, directed the evolutions. The army was drawn up in
      divisions four deep, and mustered five thousand strong.  
  and the joyous beams of the orb of day sported on the points of bayonets, flashed
      on naked swords, and played on the steel helmets of four hundred cuirassiers whom Richard had
      organised on the preceding evening.  
  Stationed on an eminence, attended by his staff, and by his faithful Morcar, who had
      comported himself gallantly in the battle of the 2d, Markham surveyed, with feelings of
      indescribable enthusiasm, that armament which owned him as its chief.  
  Cossario gave the word—it was passed on from division to division; and now all these
      sections are wheeling into line.  
  The line is formed—the bands are stationed in front of their respective corps: and all is as
      still as death.  
  Again the Colonel gives the word of command—"General salute! Present arms!"—and a long din
      of hands clapping against the muskets echoes around.  
  The bands strike up the glorious French air of the   Parisienne  ; and
      Markham gracefully raises his plumed hat from his brow, in acknowledgment of the salute of his
      army.  
  The music ceases—the word, "Shoulder arms!" is passed from division to division, along that
      line of half a mile from flank to flank.  
  Then Markham gallops towards the troops, followed by his staff; the ranks take open order;
      he passes along, inspecting the different corps,—addressing them—encouraging them.  
  Again he returns to the eminence: the line is once more broken into divisions; close columns
      are formed; and the whole army is put in motion, to march past its General, the bands playing
      a lively air.  
  From the plain the troops defiled towards the road leading to Abrantani.  
  But scarcely had Markham taken leave of the mayor and the municipal authorities, in order to
      rejoin his army, when a courier, covered with dust, galloped up to him. He was the bearer of
      letters from Signor Viviani. Those documents afforded our hero the welcome intelligence that
      Pinalla had hoisted the tri-colour, declared in favour of the cause of liberty, recognised
      Markham as the General-in-Chief of the Constitutional Armies of Castelcicala, and had
      despatched a reinforcement of two thousand men to fight under his banner.  
  Richard hastily communicated these tidings to the corporation of Piacere, and then joined
      his army, throughout the ranks of which the news of the adhesion of so important a city as
      Pinalla to the great cause diffused the utmost joy.  
  "Every thing favours me!" thought Richard, his heart leaping within him. "Oh! for success at
      Abrantani; and such will be its moral effect upon my troops that I shall fear nothing for the
      result of the grand and final struggle that must take place beneath the walls of Montoni! And,
      then, Isabella, even your father will acknowledge that I have some claim to your hand as a
      reward for placing him upon the ducal throne!"  
  The road that the army now pursued was most favourable for the rapid march which Richard
      urged. It was wide and even, and afforded an easy passage to the artillery.  
  Shortly after mid-day the van-guard entered the beautiful province of Abrantani; and there
      the troops were received by the inhabitants with an enthusiasm of the most grateful
      description. For it was in this district that the tyranny of the Grand Duke's
         régime  , under the auspices of Count Santa-Croce, had been most severely
      felt.  
  No wonder, then, that the Constitutional Army was greeted with rapture and delight;—no
      wonder that blessings were invoked upon the head of its General! The old men went down upon
      their knees by the road-sides, to implore heaven to accord success to his mission;—mothers
      held up their children to catch a glimpse of the youthful hero;—and young maidens threw
      garlands of flowers in his path.  
  Volunteers poured in from all sides; and the army increased in its progress, like the
      snowball rolling along the ground.  
  At sunset the entire force halted in the precincts of a large town, the inhabitants of which
      hastened to supply the soldiers with provisions and wine.  
  During that pause, couriers arrived from Veronezzi, with the joyful tidings that it had
      declared in favour of the Constitutional cause, and was sending reinforcements. Thus the whole
      of the south of Castelcicala was now devoted to the movement of which Markham was the head and
      chief.  
  For two hours was the army permitted to rest: it then continued its march until midnight,
      when it bivouacked in a wide plain, a wood protecting its right wing, and a hill, whereon the
      artillery was planted, defending its left.  
  Richard adopted every precaution to avoid a surprise; for he was well aware that the Count
      of Santa-Croce was not a man to slumber at such a crisis. But it afterwards appeared that the
      Captain-General did not dare to quit the neighbourhood of the city of Abrantani, for fear that
      it should pronounce in favour of the Constitutionalists.  
  It was, therefore, under the walls of Abrantani itself that the contest was to take
      place.  
  There was a flat eminence to the east of the city; and on this had Santa-Croce taken up his
      position at the head of seven thousand men—three thousand Castelcicalans, and four thousand
      Austrians.  
  Against this force was Richard to contend, at the head of six thousand soldiers, the
      volunteers who had joined him since he left Piacere amounting to a thousand.  
  But to return to our narrative in the consecutive order of events.  
  At five o'clock in the morning of the 5th, the Constitutionalists quitted their position
      where they had bivouacked, and pursued their way towards the city of Abrantani.  
  The day passed—night came once more—and the troops bivouacked in the immediate vicinity of a
      large hamlet.  
  The morning of the 6th saw them again in motion; but Richard allowed them to proceed with
      diminished celerity, as he had already enough chances against him to warn him not to increase
      them by over-fatiguing his army.  
  It was not, therefore, until the evening that he came in sight of the tall spire on the
      Cathedral of Abrantani.  
  "By this time to-morrow," exclaimed Richard, pointing in the direction of the city, "the
      tower on which yon spire stands shall echo with the sounds of its bells to celebrate our
      triumph!"  
  "Amen!" ejaculated Morcar, who was close behind him.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The Constitutionalists took up a strong position, with a village on their right and a range
      of extensive farm-buildings on their left. They were all animated by an enthusiasm worthy of
      the great cause in which they were embarked; and their ardour was manifested by singing
      martial songs as they crowded round the fires of the bivouac.  
  Richard never closed his eyes during the night. Confident that his want of experience in
      military tactics must be compensated for by unceasing exercise of that intelligence and
      keenness of perception which had enabled him to direct the movements of his troops so as to
      achieve the victory of Piacere, he reconnoitred all the positions adjacent to his own—marked
      those where troops would be advantageously placed, and observed others where they would be
      endangered—visited the outposts—studied the maps of that part of the country—and held
      consultations with his most skilful officers. These subordinates were astonished at the
      soundness of his views, the excellence of his arrangements, and the admirable nature of his
      combinations.  
  Markham was resolved to effect two objects, which, he felt convinced, would lessen the
      chances that were now against him. The first was to throw up a small redoubt, where he might
      place a portion of his artillery, so as to command the flat eminence on which the
      Austro-Castelcicalan army was stationed. The second was to send off a small detachment before
      day-break, to gain a wood about two miles distant, whence it might debouch at the proper time,
      and fall upon the left flank of the enemy.  
  The redoubt was commenced, and proceeded rapidly; and an hour before sunrise the corps of
      Cingani departed on the important service which the General-in-Chief confided to it, with
      strict orders not to move from the wood until the enemy should have left the eminence and
      descended to the plain.  
  Thus, by the time the sun rose on the morning of the 7th, the Cingani were safely concealed
      in the wood; a redoubt, bristling with artillery, commanded the enemy's position; and the
      Constitutionalists were formed in order of battle.  
  Richard commanded the right wing; and Colonel Cossario the left.  
  The engagement began on the part of the Constitutionalists, with a cannonade from
      the redoubt; and so well did this battery perform its part, that—as Richard had foreseen—the
      Captain-General was compelled to descend into the plain, and endeavour to surround the right
      wing of the Constitutionalists, in order to terminate the carnage occasioned by that dreadful
      cannonade.  
  Meantime, Cossario, with his division, advanced to meet three battalions which the
      Captain-General had detached to attack the range of farm-buildings; and for an hour the combat
      raged in that point with inconceivable fury. The Austrians precipitated themselves with a
      desperate ardour upon Cossario's troops, who were at length compelled to retreat and occupy
      the farm.  
  On the right, Markham sustained a fearful contest with the force opposed to him. The fire of
      the musketry was at point-blank distance; and the firmness with which the action was
      maintained on both sides, rendered the result highly dubious.  
  But now the Cingani debouched from the wood, and fell upon the left wing of the enemy. The
      impetuosity of their attack was irresistible: the wing was turned by them; and the
      Austro-Castelcicalans were thrown into disorder. Then Richard, at the head of his cuirassiers,
      charged upon the centre of the enemy, and decided the fortune of the day.  
  In the meantime Cossario had completely rallied his division and had succeeded in repulsing
      the battalions that were opposed to him.  
  The Captain-General endeavoured to effect a retreat in an orderly manner towards the
      eminence which he had originally occupied; but Richard, perceiving his intention, was enabled
      to out-flank him, and to gain possession of the height. For an hour this important position
      was disputed with all the vigour and ardour of military combat; but, though the
      Austro-Castelcicalans manifested a vehemence bordering on rage, and a perseverance approaching
      to desperation, all their attempts to recover their lost ground were ineffectual.  
  And equally vain were the endeavours of Santa-Croce to secure an orderly retreat; his
      columns were shattered—his battalions broken; the flight of his troops became general; but
      they were closely pursued by their conquerors.  
  The Cathedral of Abrantani proclaimed the hour of three in the afternoon, when Richard, on
      the eminence commanding the city, sate down to pen hasty dispatches, announcing this great
      victory to the Committees of Montoni, Piacere, Villabella, Veronezzi, Pinalla, and Estella.
      Nor did he forget to enclose, in his letters to Signor Viviani, brief notes addressed to his
      friend Monroe and the Princess Isabella.  
  The results of the battle of Abrantani were most glorious to the Constitutional arms. While
      Richard's loss was small, that of the enemy had been enormous. Two thousand men—chiefly
      Austrians—lay dead upon the plain; and nearly as many were taken prisoners. Two of the
      Castelcicalan regiments rallied at a short distance from the scene of the conflict, and
      placing themselves at the disposal of Colonel Cossario, who had pursued them, joined the
      Constitutional cause.  
  The Captain-General, Count Santa-Croce, succeeded in effecting his escape, with several of
      his superior officers; and, hastening to join the Grand Duke, who was still besieging Montoni,
      the vanquished chief was the first to communicate to that Prince the fatal result of the
      battle.  
  That same evening Richard Markham entered the city of Abrantani, which joyfully opened its
      gates to receive him; and, as in the other towns which he had occupied, the thunders of
      artillery, the ringing of bells, and the plaudits of admiring crowds testified the enthusiasm
      which was inspired by the presence of the youthful General.  
  Richard determined to remain some days in the city of Abrantani. Montoni was besieged by a
      force nearly twenty-five thousand strong; and our hero felt the necessity of waiting for the
      reinforcements promised him, and of raising as many volunteers as possible, ere he could
      venture to cope with so formidable a force. But in every despatch which he had sent to the
      Committee of Government at Montoni, he had given the most solemn assurances of his resolution
      to march to the relief of the capital with as little delay as possible; and it was now, at
      Abrantani, that he anxiously expected official tidings from the besieged city.  
  Nor was he kept long in suspense. On the morning of the 10th a courier arrived with
      despatches from the Committee of Government. These documents are so important, that we do not
      hesitate to lay them before our readers.  
  The first was conceived thus:—  
  
  "Montoni, January 9th, 1841.  
  "The Committee of Government of the State of Castelcicala have received the various
       despatches which the General-in-Chief of the Constitutional Army has addressed to them
       respectively from Villabella, Piacere, and Abrantani. The Committee must reserve for a future
       occasion the pleasing duty of expressing how deeply they rejoice at the General-in-Chief's
       various successes, and how anxiously they watch the progress of that cause of which he has
       become the guide and champion.  
  "The Committee cannot, however, omit one duty which they now perform by virtue of the full
       powers of administration and government that have been vested in them by the inhabitants of
       the capital, and which powers are recognised by all faithful Castelcicalans who have declared
       in favour of the Constitutional cause.  
  "This duty is rendered imperious on the Committee by the eminent and unequalled services of
       the General-in-Chief.  
  "The Committee of Government have therefore ordained, and do ordain, that the style and
       title of   Marquis of Estella   be conferred upon the General-in-Chief, the most
       Excellent Signor Richard Markham.  
  "And a copy of this decree shall be forwarded to every city or town which has pronounced in
       favour of the Constitutional cause.  
  "By order of the Committee of Government—  
  "GAETANO, President TERLIZZI, Vice-President."     
  The second despatch ran thus:—  
  
  "  To the Marquis of Estella, General-in-Chief of the Constitutional Armies of
        Castelcicala.    
  "  My Lord  ,  
  "We, the members of the Committee of Government of Castelcicala, have the honour to lay
       before your lordship a few particulars relative to the condition of the capital city of that
       State. Closely besieged by the foreign force whom the traitor Angelo has invited into the
       country, and blockaded at sea by the fleet of the Lord High Admiral, Montoni already enters
       upon the dread phase of   famine  achievements of your lordship and the Constitutional Army having inspired them
       with the most lively hopes of a speedy deliverance. So sorely are we pressed, that it has
       been only with the greatest difficulty that your lordship's couriers have been able to pass
       the lines of the besiegers, and gain entrance into the city.  
  "We feel convinced that these brief statements will be sufficient to induce your lordship
       to lose no time in marching to the deliverance of the capital.  
   "We have the honour to remain, My Lord,   
  "Your lordship's obedient servants,   
  "For the Members of the Committee } GAETANO, President.   
  } TERLIZZI, Vice-President.   
  "Montoni, January 9th, 1841 (Six o'clock in the morning.)"     
  Most welcome, in one sense, to our hero were these documents. Although he deeply deplored
      the condition to which Montoni was reduced, he could not do otherwise than experience the most
      thrilling and rapturous delight at the impression which his conduct had produced upon the
      Provisional Government of the State, and of the inhabitants of the capital.  
  Nor shall we depreciate the merits of Richard Markham, if we admit that he received, with
      the most heart-felt joy, that title of nobility which, he felt convinced, must lead him nearer
      to the grand aim of all his exertions—the hand of Isabella!  
  And as he looked back upon the events of the last fortnight,—when he reflected that at the
      commencement of that short interval he had issued from Pinalla on a desperate undertaking, and
      that these fourteen days had shed glory on his name, and placed the coronet of a Marquis upon
      his brow,—he was lost in admiration of the inscrutable ways of that Providence to whom he had
      never ceased to pray, morning and evening—as well when crowned with success as in the hour of
      danger!  
  But as we do not wish to dwell too much upon this grand and remarkable episode in our hero's
      history, we shall continue our narrative of these events in their proper order.  
  The Marquis of Estella each day saw his army increasing. The promised reinforcements arrived
      from Pinalla and Veronezzi: Lipari and Ossore declared for his cause, and furnished their
      contingents to the Constitutional forces; and each hour brought to Richard's head-quarters at
      Abrantani tidings of fresh movements in his favour. Troops poured in; and he was compelled to
      muster his forces in an encampment on the northern side of the town.  
  Indeed, the battles of Piacere and Abrantani had electrified Castelcicala; and the
      tri-coloured banner already floated on the walls of the principal cities and towns of the
      state. Addresses of confidence and congratulation were sent to our hero from all parts; and
      large sums of money were raised and forwarded to him, to enable him to reward his troops and
      equip his volunteers.  
  It was on the 20th of January that Markham put his army in motion. He was now at the head of
      sixteen thousand men, with a formidable train of artillery. Although the numerical odds were
      fearfully against him, he reposed the most perfect confidence in the valour of his
      troops—elated as they were by previous successes, and glorying in a cause which they deemed
      holy and sacred. Moreover, he knew that the moral strength of his army was incomparably
      superior to that of the mere drilled Austrian troops, who were trained under a soul-crushing
      system of discipline, and who regarded their chiefs rather as tyrants and oppressors than as
      generous superiors exercising a species of paternal influence over them.  
  On the morning of the 22d, the Constitutional Army reached Ossore, all the inhabitants of
      which town came out to behold the glorious procession, and testify their admiration of the
      young General.  
  It was during a brief halt near this place, that a courier, travel-soiled and sinking with
      fatigue, arrived from Montoni, with a letter addressed to the Marquis of Estella and
      containing only this laconic but urgent prayer:—  
  
  "Hasten, my lord—delay not! In forty-eight hours it will be too late!  
  "GAETANO."    
  Richard instantly despatched a messenger, on whose prudence and daring he could rely, with
      an answer equally brief and impressive:—  
  
  "Fear not, signor! By to-morrow night Montoni shall be delivered, or the army which I am
       leading to your rescue will be annihilated.  
  "ESTELLA."    
  The city was indeed sore pressed. The inhabitants were reduced to the utmost extremities in
      respect to provision; and the Austrians, headed by the Grand Duke in person and Marshal
      Herbertstein, were pushing the siege with a vigour that was almost irresistible.  
  But on the 22d of January those commanders were compelled to concentrate nearly all their
      troops on the southern side of Montoni: for they were well aware that the Constitutional Army
      was now approaching.  
  In the afternoon of the same day, the light cavalry of Richard's force entered upon the
      broad plain through which the Ferretti rolls its silver way; and at a distance of three miles
      the tower of Saint Theodosia reared its summit far above the white buildings of Montoni.  
  By nine o'clock on that night the entire Constitutional Army had taken up a strong position,
      its left being protected by high sand-banks which overlooked the sea, and its right defended
      by a large village.  
  Oh! it was a great cause which was so soon to be justified—and that was a glorious army
      which was now preparing for the final struggle!  
  A discharge of cannon from the walls of Montoni announced that the capital awaited its
      deliverance; and the Committee of Government issued orders that the bells of every church
      should ring for mass at day-break, in order that the inhabitants might offer up prayers for
      the success of the Constitutional Army.  
  As on the eve of the glorious fight of Abrantani, the Marquis of Estella was actively
      employed during the whole night in making the various dispositions for the great battle which,
      on the following day, must decide the fate of Castelcicala.  
  And most solemnly and sublimely interesting was that night! So close were the two armies to
      each other—only half a cannon shot distant—that every sound on either side could be mutually
      heard. The very outposts and sentinels were almost within speaking range; and the lights of
      the two positions were plainly visible. Watchfulness and keen observation characterised both
      sides.  
  the Princess Isabella; and this he despatched in another epistle to his excellent
      friend, the banker at Pinalla.  
  Then, when the first gleam of twilight heralded the advent of the sun, and while the bells
      were ringing in every tower of Montoni, the hero mounted his horse and prepared for the
      conflict that was now at hand.  
  
  CHAPTER CLXXXIX.   THE BATTLE OF MONTONI.  
  The morning of the memorable 23d of January dawned, and the bells were ringing in every
      tower, when three cannon gave the signal for the fight, and the battle of Montoni began.  
  The light troops of the Constitutionalists opened a smart fire upon the Austrians, and
      dislodged a strong corps from a position which it occupied on the bank of a small stream. In
      consequence of this first success, Richard was enabled to stretch out his right wing without
      restraint; and, remembering the operation effected by the Cingani at Abrantani, he instantly
      despatched that faithful corps, with a battalion of rifles, to make the circuit of the
      village, and endeavour to turn the Austrians' left flank.  
  The left wing of the Constitutionalists soon came to close quarters with the right wing of
      the enemy; and a desperate struggle ensued to decide the occupancy of the sand-banks, which
      were quite hard and a desirable position for artillery-pieces. Colonel Cossario, who commanded
      in that point, succeeded, after a desperate conflict, in repulsing the Austrians; and twenty
      field-pieces were dragged on the sand-banks. These speedily vomited forth the messengers of
      destruction; and the dread ordnance scattered death with appalling rapidity.  
  The Grand Duke, seeing that his cause was hopeless if that dreadful cannonade was not
      stopped, ordered four battalions of grenadiers to attack the position. Markham, who was riding
      about the field,—now issuing orders—now taking a part in the conflict,—observed the manœuvre,
      and instantly placed himself at the head of two regiments of cuirassiers with a view to render
      it abortive.  
  Then commenced one of the most deadly spectacles ever performed on the theatre of the world.
      The Grand Duke sent a strong detachment of Austrian Life-Guards to support the grenadiers; and
      the two squadrons of cavalry came into fearful collision. The Constitutionalists were giving
      way, when Markham precipitated himself into the thickest of the fight, cleared every thing
      before him, and seized the Austrian colours. Morcar was immediately by his side: the sword of
      a Life-Guard already gleamed above our hero's head—another moment, and he would have been no
      more. But the faithful gipsy warded off the blow, and with another stroke of his heavy brand
      nearly severed the sword-arm of the Life-Guard. Richard thanked him with a rapid but
      profoundly expressive glance, and, retaining his hold on the Austrian banner, struck the
      ensign-bearer to the ground.  
  This splendid achievement re-animated the Constitutional cuirassiers; and the Austrian
      Life-Guards were shattered beyond redemption.  
  Almost at the same time, the Cingani and rifles effected their movement on the left wing of
      the enemy, and threw it into confusion. This disorder was however retrieved for about the
      space of two hours; when the Marquis of Estella, with his cuirassiers, was enabled to take a
      part in the conflict in that direction. This attack bore down the Austrians. They formed
      themselves into a square; but vain were their attempts to oppose the impetuosity with which
      the cuirassiers charged them. By three o'clock in the afternoon, the left wing of the enemy
      was overwhelmed so completely that all the endeavours of Marshal Herbertstein to rally his
      troops were fruitless.  
  Then, resolved to perish rather than surrender, the Austrian commander met an honourable
      death in the ranks of battle.  
  In the center the conflict raged with a fury which seemed to leave room for doubt relative
      to the fortune of the day, notwithstanding the important successes already obtained by the
      Constitutionalists.  
  The Grand Duke had flown with a choice body of cavalry to support the compact masses that
      were now fighting for the victory: he himself rode along the ranks—encouraging them—urging
      them on—promising rewards.  
  For nearly four hours more did the battle last in this point; but at length our hero came up
      with his cuirassiers, all flushed with conquest elsewhere; and his presence gave a decided
      turn to the struggle.  
  Rushing precipitately on—bearing down all before them—thundering along with an irresistible
      impetuosity, the cuirassiers scattered confusion and dismay in the ranks of their enemies. And
      ever foremost in that last struggle, as in the first, the waving heron's plume which marked
      his rank, and the death-dealing brand which he wielded with such fatal effect, denoted the
      presence of Richard Markham.  
  He saw that the day was his own;—the Austrians were flying in all directions;—confusion,
      disorder, and dismay prevailed throughout their broken corps and shattered bands;—Marshal
      Herbertstein was numbered with the slain;—the Grand Duke fled;—and at eight o'clock in the
      evening Montoni was delivered.  
  Darkness had now fallen on the scene of carnage; but still the Constitutionalists pursued
      the Austrian fugitives; and numbers were taken ere they could reach the river. A comparatively
      small portion of the vanquished succeeded in throwing themselves into the boats that were
      moored on the southern bank, or in gaining the adjacent bridges; and those only escaped.  
  Montoni saluted its deliverance with salvoes of artillery and the ringing of bells; and the
      joyous sounds fell upon the ears of the Grand Duke, as, heart-broken and distracted, he
      pursued his way, attended only by a few faithful followers, towards the frontiers of that
      State from which his rashness and despotism had driven him for ever.  
  Meantime, Richard Markham issued the necessary orders for the safeguard of the prisoners and
      the care of the wounded; and, having attended to those duties, he repaired to the village
      before mentioned, where he established his temporary head-quarters at the
         château   of a nobleman devoted to the Constitutional cause.  
  of his heart, the charming and well-beloved Isabella:—  
  
  Head Quarters, near Montoni, Jan. 23.  
  Eleven at night.  
  "Long ere this will reach thee, dearest one, thou wilt have heard, by means of telegraphic
       dispatch through France, of the great victory which has made me master of Castelcicala. If
       there be any merit due unto myself, in consummating this great aim, and conducting this
       glorious cause to its final triumph, it was thine image, beloved Isabella, which nerved my
       arm and which gave me intelligence to make the combinations that have led to so decided an
       end. In the thickest of the fight—in the midst of danger,—when balls whistled by me like
       hail, and the messengers of death were circulating in every direction,—thine eyes seemed to
       be guiding stars of hope, and promise, and love. And now the first moment that I can snatch
       from the time which so many circumstances compel me to devote to your native land, is given
       to thee!  
  "To-morrow I shall write at great length to your honoured father, whom in the morning it
       will be my pleasing duty to proclaim   Alberto I. Grand Duke of Castelcicala  .  
  "Although men now call me   Marquis of Estella  , to thee, dearest, I am simply  
  "RICHARD."  
  
  Our hero despatched this letter in one to Signor Viviani at Pinalla, by especial courier. He
      next wrote hasty accounts of the great victory which he had gained, to the chief authorities
      of the various cities and towns which had first declared in his favour, as before mentioned;
      and these also were instantly sent off by messengers.  
  Then soon did rumour tell the glorious tale how Montoni was delivered; and how the mighty
      flood of Austrian power, which had dashed its billows against the walls of the ducal capital,
      was rolled back over the confines of Castelcicala into the Roman States, never to return!  
  We shall not dwell upon the particulars of that night which succeeded the battle. Our
      readers can imagine the duties that devolve upon a commander after so brilliant and yet so
      sanguinary a day. Suffice it to observe, that Richard visited the houses in the village to
      which the wounded had been conveyed; while Colonel Cossario took possession of the Austrian
      camp.  
  That night Montoni was brilliantly illuminated; and the most exuberant joy prevailed
      throughout the capital.  
  The Committee of Government assembled in close deliberation, immediately after the receipt
      of the welcome tidings of the victory; and, although they consulted in secret, still the
      inhabitants could well divine the subject of their debate—the best means of testifying their
      own and the nation's gratitude towards that champion who had thus diffused joy into so many
      hearts.  
  Early in the morning, the entire Committee, dressed in their robes, and attended by the
      chief officers of the garrison, repaired on horseback to the village where Richard had
      established his head-quarters.  
  Our hero came forth to meet them, at the door of the mansion where he was lodged, and
      received those high functionaries with his plumed hat in hand.  
  "My lord," exclaimed Signor Gaëtano, the President of the Committee, "it is for us to bare
      our heads to you. You have saved us from an odious tyranny—from oppression—from siege—from
      famine! God alone can adequately reward you: Castelcicala cannot. We have, however, further
      favours to solicit at your lordship's hand. Until that Prince, who is now our rightful
      sovereign, can come amongst us, and occupy that throne which your hands have prepared for him,
      you must be our chief—our Regent. My lord, a hundred councillors, forming the Provisional
      Committee of Government, debated this point last evening; and not a single voice was raised in
      objection to that request which I, as their organ, have now proffered to your lordship."  
  "No," answered Richard: "that cannot be. The world would say that I am ambitious—that I am
      swayed by interested motives of aggrandizement. Continue, gentlemen, to exercise supreme sway,
      until the arrival of your sovereign."  
  "My lord," returned the President, "Castelcicala demands this favour at your hands."  
  "Then, if Castelcicala command, I accept the trust with which you honour me," exclaimed
      Markham; "but so soon as I shall have succeeded in restoring peace and order, you will permit
      me, gentlemen, to repair to England, to present the ducal diadem to your rightful liege. And
      one word more," continued Markham; "your troops have conducted themselves, throughout this
      short but brilliant campaign, in a manner which exceeds all praise. To you I commend them—you
      must reward them."  
  "Your lordship is now the Regent of Castelcicala," answered the President; "and your decrees
      become our laws. Order—and we obey."  
  "I shall not abuse the power which you place in my hands," rejoined Markham.  
  The President then communicated to the Regent the pleasing fact that the Lord High Admiral
      had that morning hoisted the tri-coloured flag and sent an officer to signify his adhesion to
      the victorious cause. In answer to a question from Signor Gaëtano, Richard signified his
      intention of entering Montoni at three o'clock in the afternoon.  
  The principal authorities then returned to the capital.  
  Long before the appointed hour, the sovereign city wore an aspect of rejoicing and
      happiness. Triumphal arches were erected in the streets through which the conqueror would have
      to pass: the troops of the garrison were mustered in the great square of the palace; and a
      guard of honour was despatched to the southern gate. The windows were filled with smiling
      faces: banners waved from the tops of the houses. The ships in the harbour and roadstead were
      decked in their gayest colours; and boats were constantly arriving from the fleet with
      provisions of all kinds for the use of the inhabitants.  
  The great bell in the tower of Saint Theodosia at length proclaims the hour of three.  
  And, now—hark! the artillery roars—Montoni salutes her Regent: the guard of honour presents
      arms; the martial music plays a national air; and the conqueror enters the capital. The
      men-of-war in the roadstead thunder forth echoes to the cannon on the ramparts; and the yards
      are manned in token of respect for the representative of the sovereign power.  
  his great deeds excited the enthusiasm, the admiration, and the respect of every
      heart.  
  Then his ideas were reflected still farther back; and he thought of the time when he was a
      prisoner, though innocent, in an English gaol. Far more rapidly than we can record his
      meditations, did memory whirl him through all past adversities—reproduce before his mental
      eyes his recent wanderings in Castelcicala—and hurry him on to this glorious consummation,
      when he finds himself entering the capital as the highest peer in the State.  
  On his right hand was Colonel Cossario; and close behind him—amidst his brilliant staff—was
      Morcar,—the faithful gipsy whose devotedness to his master had not a little contributed to
      this grand result.  
  On went the procession amidst the enthusiastic applause of the myriads collected to welcome
      the conquerors,—on through streets crowded to the roof-tops with happy faces,—on to the ducal
      palace, in whose great square ten thousand troops were assembled to receive the Regent.  
  Richard alighted from his horse at the gate of the princely abode, on the threshold of which
      the municipal authorities were gathered to receive him.  
  Oh! at that moment how deeply—how sincerely did he regret the loss of General Grachia,
      Colonel Morosino, and the other patriots who had fallen in the fatal conflict of Ossore!  
  Nor less did memory recall the prophetic words of that departed girl who had loved him so
      devotedly, but so unhappily;—those words which Mary-Anne, with sybilline inspiration, had
      uttered upon her death-bed:—"  Brilliant destinies await you, Richard! All your enduring
       patience, your resignation under the oppression of foul wrong, will meet with a glorious
       reward. Yes—for I know all:—that angel Isabella has kept no secret from me. She is a
       Princess, Richard; and by your union with her, you yourself will become one of the greatest
       Princes in Europe! Her father, too, shall succeed to his just rights; and then, Richard,
       then—how small will be the distance between yourself and the Castelcicalan throne!  "  
  
  CHAPTER CXC.   TWO OF OUR OLD ACQUAINTANCES.  
  We must again transport our readers to the great metropolis of England.  
  It was late in the evening of the 24th of January, 1841,—with Byron, we "like to be
      particular in dates,"—that a man, of herculean form, weather-beaten countenance, and whose age
      was apparently somewhat past forty, was passing down Drury Lane.  
  He was dressed like a labourer, with a smock frock and a very broad-brimmed straw hat, which
      was slouched as much as possible over his face.  
  Passing into Blackmoor Street, he continued his way towards Clare Market; whence he turned
      abruptly into Clements' Lane, and entered a public-house on the right hand side of this
      wretched scene of squalor and poverty.  
  No one possessing the least feeling of compassion for the suffering portion of the
      industrious millions—(and how large is that portion!)—can pass along the miserable
      thoroughfare called Clements' Lane without being shocked at the internal misery which the
      exterior appearance of many of the dwellings bespeaks. There is ever a vile effluvium in that
      narrow alley—a miasma as of a crowded churchyard!  
  Entering the parlour of the public-house, the man with the weather-beaten countenance and
      slouched hat was immediately recognised by a lad seated apart from the other inmates of the
      room.  
  This youth was about eighteen or nineteen years of age, very short in stature, but well
      made. On a former occasion we have stated that his countenance was effeminate and by no means
      bad-looking; his eyes were dark and intelligent; his teeth good; and his voice soft and
      agreeable. His manners were superior to his condition; and his language was singularly correct
      for one who was almost entirely self-taught, and who had filled menial employments since his
      boyhood.  
  He was dressed in a blue jacket and waistcoat, and dark brown trousers; and that attire,
      together with a boy's cap, contributed towards the extreme youthfulness of his appearance.  
  A pint of porter stood, untouched, upon a table at which he was sitting.  
  The man with the weather-beaten countenance proceeded to take his seat next to this lad: he
      then rang the bell, and having ordered some liquor and a pipe, entered into conversation with
      his young companion.  
  "Have you heard any thing more of that villain Tidkins, Harry?" asked the man.  
  "Nothing more since I saw you yesterday morning, Jem," replied Holford. "I have lost all
      trace of him."  
  "But are you sure that it was him you saw the day before yesterday?" demanded Crankey
      Jem—for   he   was the individual with the weather-beaten countenance and slouched
      hat.  
  "Don't you think I know him well enough, after all I have told you concerning him?" said
      Henry Holford, smiling. "When you and I accidentally met for the first time, the day before
      yesterday, in this parlour, and when in the course of the conversation that sprang up between
      us, I happened to mention the name of Tidkins, I saw how you fired—how you coloured—how
      agitated you became. What injury has he done you, that you are so bitter against him?"  
  "I will tell you another time, Harry," answered Crankey Jem. "My history is a strange
      one—and you shall know it all. But I   must   find out the lurking-hole of this miscreant
      Tidkins. You say he was well dressed?"  
  "As well as a private person can be," answered Holford. "But did the Resurrection Man put on
      the robes of the greatest monarch in the world, he could not mitigate the atrocious expression
      of his cadaverous—hang-dog countenance. I confess that I am afraid of that man:—yes—I am
      afraid of him!"  
  "He was well-dressed, and was stepping into a cab at the stand under the Charterhouse wall,
      you said?" observed Crankey Jem.  
  "Yes—and he said, '  To the Mint—Borough  ,'" replied Holford: "those were his very
      words—and away the cab went."  
  "And you have since been to see if you could recognise the cab, and pump the cab-man?"
      continued Jem.  
  I could not find the particular cab which he took."  
  "Why didn't you question the waterman and the drivers?" asked Jem.  
  "So I did; but I could glean nothing. Now if you really want to find the Resurrection Man, I
      should advise you to go over to the Mint, and hunt him out amongst the low public-houses in
      that district. Depend upon it," added Holford, "he has business there; for he is not a man to
      run about in cabs for nothing."  
  "The fact is, Harry," returned Jem, "that it doesn't suit my schemes to look after Tidkins
      myself. He would only get out of my way; and—as I have missed my aim   once  —I must take
      care to   thrust home   the next time I fall in with him."  
  "You mean to say that you have poniarded him once, and that he escaped death?" whispered
      Holford.  
  "Yes: but I will tell you all about it presently, Harry," said Crankey Jem; "and then,
      perhaps, you will be induced to assist me in hunting out the Resurrection Man."  
  "I certainly have an old score to settle with him," returned Holford; "for—as I told you—he
      once laid a plot against my life. To-night you shall tell me how you came to be so bitter
      against him: to-morrow night I will visit the Mint, and make the inquiries you wish concerning
      him; and the night afterwards I must devote to particular business of my own."  
  "And what particular business can such a younker as you have in hand?" asked Crankey Jem,
      with as much of a smile as his grim countenance could possibly relax itself into.  
  "I now and then visit a place where I can contemplate, at my ease, a beautiful lady—without
      even my presence being suspected," answered Holford, in a mysterious tone.  
  "A beautiful lady! Are you in love with her, then?" demanded Crankey Jem.  
  "The mere idea is so utterly absurd—so extravagant—so preposterous," replied Holford, "that
      my lips dare not speak an affirmative. To acknowledge that I love this lady of whom I speak,
      would be almost a crime—an atrocity—a diabolical insult,—so highly is she placed above me! And
      yet," he added mournfully, "the human heart   has   strange
       susceptibilities—  will   indulge in the idlest phantasies! My chief happiness is to
      gaze upon this lady—and my blood boils when I behold him on whom all her affection is
      bestowed."  
  "She is married, then?" said Crankey Jem, interrogatively.  
  "Yes—married to one who is handsome and young, and who perhaps loves her all the more
      because he owes so much—so very much to her! But I actually shudder—I feel alarmed—I tremble,
      while I thus permit my tongue to touch upon such topics,—topics as sacred as a religion—as
      holy as a worship."  
  "You have either indulged in some very foolish and most hopeless attachment, Harry," said
      his companion; "or else your wits are going a-wool-gathering."  
  "May be both your remarks apply to me," muttered Holford, a cloud passing over his
      countenance. "But—no—no: I am in the perfect possession of my senses—my intellects are
      altogether unimpaired. It is a fancy—a whim of my mine to introduce myself into the place I
      before alluded to, and, from my concealment, contemplate the lady of whom I have spoken. It
      gives me pleasure to look upon her—I know not why. Then—when I am alone—I brood upon her
      image, recall to mind all I have heard her say or seen her do, and ponder on her features—her
      figure—her dress—her whole appearance, until I become astonished at myself—alarmed at my own
      presumption—terrified at my own thoughts. For weeks and weeks—nay, for months—I remain away
      from the place where she often dwells;—but at length some imperceptible and unknown impulse
      urges me thither; I rove about the neighbourhood, gazing longingly upon the building;—I
      endeavour to tear myself away—I cannot;—then I ascend the wall—I traverse the garden—I enter
      the dwelling—I conceal myself—I behold   her   again—  him   also,—and my pleasures
      and my tortures are experienced all over again!"  
  "You're a singular lad," said Crankey Jem, eyeing the youth with no small degree of
      astonishment, and some suspicion that he was not altogether right in his upper storey. "But
      who is this lady that you speak of? and why are you so frightened even to think of her? A cat
      may look at a king—aye, and   think   of him too, for that matter. Human nature is human
      nature; and one isn't always answerable for one's feelings."  
  "There I agree with you, Jem," said Holford. "I have often struggled hard against that
      impulse which urges me towards the place where the lady dwells—but all in vain!"  
  "Who is she, once more?" demanded Jem.  
  "That is a secret—never to be revealed," answered Harry.  
  Crankey Jem had commenced an observation in reply, when one of the persons who were sitting
      drinking at another table, suddenly struck up a chant in so loud and boisterous a tone that it
      completely drowned the voice of Holford's companion:—  
  
  FLARE UP.  
  Flare up, I say, my jolly friends,   
  And pass the bingo gaily;—  
  Who cares a rap if all this ends   
  Some morn at the Old Bailey?  
  "A short life and a merry one"   
  Should be our constant maxim;  
  And he's a fool that gives up fun   
  Because remorse attacks him.   
  Here Ned has forks so precious fly,  
  And Bill can smash the flimsies;  target="#ENG18460_N113"/   
  No trap to Tom could e'er come nigh,  
  For he so fleet of limbs is.  
  Bob is the best to crack a crib,  
  And Dick to knap a fogle;  target="#ENG18460_N114"/   
  And I can wag my tongue so glib  
  A beak would wipe his ogle.  
  Who are so happy then as we—  
  Each with such useful knowledge?  
  For Oxford University  
  Can't beat the Floating College.  target="#ENG18460_N115"/   
  To parish prigs one gives degrees,  
  To lumber-lags   target="#ENG18460_N116"/ the latter:  
  But I would sooner cross the seas,  
  Than in a humbox patter.  target="#ENG18460_N118"/   
  Each state in life has its mishaps:—  
  Kings fear a revolution;  
  The knowing covey dreads the traps—  
  And   both   an execution.  
  Death will not long pass any by—  
  Each chance is duly raffled;  
  What matters whether we must die  
  In bed or on the scaffold?  
  Flare up, I say, then, jolly friends,  
  And pass the bingo gaily;  
  Who cares a rap if all this ends  
  Some morn at the Old Bailey?  
  "A short life and a merry one"  
  Should be our constant maxim;  
  And he's a fool that gives up fun  
  Because remorse attacks him.  
  
  "Now let us be moving, young sprig," said Crankey Jem, when the song was brought to a
      conclusion. "You shall come with me to my lodging, where we'll have a bit of supper together;
      and then I'll tell you my story. It is a strange one, I can assure you."  
  Holford rose, and followed Crankey Jem from the public-house.  
  The latter led the way to a court in Drury Lane; and introduced the lad into a small back
      chamber, which was tolerably neat and comfortable.  
  On a table near the window, were small models of ships, executed with considerable taste;
      various tools; blocks of wood, not yet shaped; paint-pots, brushes, twine, little brass cannon
      and anchors,—in a word, all the articles necessary for the miniature vessels which are seen in
      the superior toy-shops.  
  "That is the way I get my living, Harry," said Jem, pointing towards the work-table. "I have
      been a sad fellow in my time: but if any one who has gone through all I have suffered, doesn't
      change, I don't know who the devil would. Sit down, Harry—the fire will soon blaze up."  
  Jem stirred the fire, and then busied himself to spread a small round table standing in the
      middle of the room, with some cold meat, a substantial piece of cheese, and a quartern loaf.
      He also produced from his cupboard a bottle of spirits, and when there was a good blaze in the
      grate, he placed the kettle to boil.  
  "You have got every thing comfortable enough here, Jem," said Holford, when these
      preparations were concluded.  
  "Yes; I can earn a good bit of money when I choose," was the answer. "But I waste a great
      deal of time in making inquiries after Tidkins—yes, and in brooding on my vengeance, as you,
      Harry, do upon your love."  
  "Love!" ejaculated Holford. "My God! if you only knew of whom you were speaking!"  
  "Well—well," cried Jem, laughing; "I see it is a sore point—I won't touch on it any more. So
      now fall to, and eat, Harry. You're sincerely welcome. Besides, you can and will serve me, I
      know, in ferretting out this villain Tidkins. If you behave well, I'll teach you how to make
      those pretty ships; and you can earn six times as much at that work, as ever you will obtain
      as pot-boy at a public."  
  "Oh! if you would really instruct me, Jem, in your business," exclaimed Holford, "how much I
      should be obliged to you! The very name of a pot-boy is odious to my ears. Yes—I will serve
      you faithfully and truly, Jem," continued the lad: "I will go over to the Mint to-morrow
      evening; and if Tidkins is   there  , you shall know   where  ."  
  "That's what I call business, Harry," said Jem. "Serve me in this—and you can't guess all
      I'll do for you."  
  They ate their supper with a good appetite. Jem—who was somewhat methodical after a
      fashion—cleared away the things, and placed two clean tumblers and a bowl full of sugar upon
      the table.  
  When the grog was duly mixed, and "every thing was comfortable," as the man termed it, he
      commenced his truly remarkable history, which we have corrected and improved as to language,
      in the following manner.  
  
  CHAPTER CXCI.   CRANKEY JEM'S HISTORY.  
  My father's name was Robert Cuffin. At the death of   his   father he succeeded to a
      good business as grocer and tea-dealer; but he was very extravagant, and soon became bankrupt.
      He obtained his certificate, and then embarked as a wine merchant. At the expiration of three
      years he failed again, and once more appeared in the   Gazette  . This time he was
      refused his certificate. He, however, set up in business a third time, and became a coal
      merchant. His extravagances continued: so did his misfortunes. He failed, was thrown into
      prison, and took the benefit of the Insolvents' Act—but not without a long remand. On his
      release from gaol, he turned dry-salter. This new trade lasted a short time, and ended as all
      the others had done. Another residence in prison—another application to the Insolvents'
      Court—and another remand, ensued.  
  "My father was now about forty years of age, and completely ruined. He had no credit—no
      resources—no means of commencing business again. He was, however, provided with a wife and
      seven children—all requiring maintenance, and he having nothing to maintain them on. I was not
      as yet born. It appears that my father sate down one evening in a very doleful humour, and in
      a very miserable garret, to meditate upon his circumstances. He revolved a thousand schemes in
      his head; but all required some little credit or capital wherewith to make a commencement; and
      he had neither. At length he started up, slapped his hand briskly upon the table, and
      exclaimed, 'By heavens, I've got it!'—'Got what?' demanded his wife.—'A call!' replied my
      father.—'A call!' ejaculated his better half, in astonishment.—'Yes; a call,' repeated my
      father; 'a call from above to preach the blessed Gospel and cleanse the unsavoury vessels of
      earth from their sinfulness.'—His wife began to cry, for she thought that distress had turned
      his brain; but he soon convinced her that he was never more in earnest in his life. He desired
      her to make the room look as neat as possible, and get a neighbour to take care of the
      children for an hour or two in the evening, when he should return with a few friends. He then
      went out, and his wife obeyed his instructions. Sure enough, in the evening, back came my
      father with a huge Bible under one arm and a Prayer-Book under the other, and followed by
      half-a-dozen demure-looking ladies and gentlemen, who had a curious knack of keeping their
      eyes incessantly fixed upwards—or heaven-ward, as my father used to express it.  
  "Well, the visitors sate down; and my father, whose countenance had assumed a most wonderful
      gravity of expression since the morning, opened the prayer-meeting with a psalm. He then read
      passages from the two sacred books he had brought with him; and he wound up the service by an
      extemporaneous discourse, which drew tears from the eyes of his audience.  
  eloquence, that a considerate old gentleman sent for a bottle of gin; and thus my
      father's 'call' was duly celebrated.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "To be brief—so well did my father play his cards, that he soon gathered about him a
      numerous congregation; a chapel was hired somewhere in Goodman's Fields; and he was now a
      popular minister. His flock placed unbounded confidence in him—nay almost worshipped him; so
      that, thanks to their liberality, he was soon provided with a nicely-furnished house in the
      immediate vicinity of the chapel. Next door to him there dwelt a poor widow, named Ashford,
      and who had a very pretty daughter called Ruth. These females were amongst the most devoted of
      my father's flock; and in their eyes the reverend preacher was the pattern of virtue and
      holiness. The widow was compelled to take a little gin at times 'for the stomach's sake;' but
      one day she imbibed too much, fell down in a fit, and died. My father preached a funeral
      sermon, in which he eulogised her as a saint; and he afforded an asylum to the orphan girl.
      Ruth accordingly became an inmate of my father's house.  
  up seed of righteousness, so that when the Lord calls me unto himself, fitting
      heirs to carry on the good work which I have commenced, may not fail. I appealed to the angel
      in behalf of my own lawfully begotten offspring; but the angel's command brooked not
      remonstrances, and willed that I should raise up seed of Ruth Ashford: for she is blessed, in
      that her name is Ruth.'—This explanation was deemed perfectly satisfactory: and, when the
      deacons and elders had departed, my father succeeded some how or another not only in pacifying
      his wife, but also in reconciling her to the amour which he still carried on with Miss
       Ashford.  target="#ENG18460_N119" [19]    
  "Thus my father preserved both his mistress and his sanctity—at least for some considerable
      time longer. The fruit of that amour was myself; and my name is consequently Ashford—James
      Ashford—although my father insisted upon calling me Cuffin. Time wore on; but by degrees the
      jealousies which my father had at first succeeded in appeasing, developed themselves in an
      alarming manner between the wife and the mistress. Scenes of violence occurred at the house of
      his Reverence; and the neighbours began to think that their minister's amour was not quite so
      holy in its nature as he had represented it. The congregation fell off; and my father's
      reputation for sanctity was rapidly wearing out. Still he would not part with my mother and
      me; and the result was that his lawful wife left the house with all her own children. My
      father refused to support them; the parish officers interfered; and the scandal was grievously
      aggravated. Death arrived at this juncture to carry away the principal bone of contention. My
      mother became dangerously ill, and after languishing in a hopeless condition for a few weeks,
      breathed her last.  
  "Having thus stated the particulars of my birth, it will not be necessary to dwell on this
      portion of my narrative. I will only just observe that, at the death of Miss Ashford, a
      reconciliation was effected between my father and his wife; and that the former contrived to
      maintain his post as minister of the chapel—though with a diminished flock, and consequently
      with a decreased revenue. Nevertheless, I obtained a smattering of education at the school
      belonging to the chapel, and was treated with kindness by my father, although with great
      harshness by his wife. Thus continued matters until I was fifteen, when my father died; and I
      was immediately thrust out of doors to shift for myself.  
  "I was totally friendless. Vainly did I call upon the deacons and elders of the
      congregation; even those who had adhered to my father to the very last, had their eyes opened
      now that he was no longer present to reason with them. They spurned me from their doors; and I
      was left to beg or steal. I chose the former; but one night I was taken up by a watchman
      (there were no police in those times) because I was found wandering about without being able
      to give a satisfactory account of myself. You may look astonished; but I can assure you that
      when a poor devil says, '  I am starving—houseless—friendless—pennyless  ,' it is
      supposed to mean that he can't give a satisfactory account of himself! In the morning I was
      taken before the magistrate, and committed to the House of Correction as a rogue and
      vagabond.  
  "In prison I became acquainted with a number of young thieves and pickpockets; and, so
      desperate was my condition, that when the day of emancipation arrived, I was easily persuaded
      to join them. Then commenced a career which I would gladly recall—but cannot! Amongst my new
      companions I obtained the nickname of '  Crankey  ,' because I was subject to fits of
      deep despondency and remorse, so that they fancied I was not right in my head. In time I
      became the most expert housebreaker in London—Tom the Cracksman alone excepted. My exploits
      grew more and more daring; and on three occasions I got into trouble. The first and second
      times I was sent to the hulks. I remember that on my second trial a pal of mine was acquitted
      through a flaw in the indictment. He was charged with having broken into and burglariously
      entered a jeweller's shop. It was, however, proved by one of the prosecutor's own witnesses
      that the shop door had been accidentally left unlocked and unbolted, and that consequently he
      had entered without any violence at all. Thanks to the laws, he escaped on that ground,
      although judge and jury were both convinced of his guilt. Time wore on; and I formed new
      acquaintances in the line to which I was devoted. These were Tom the Cracksman, Bill Bolter,
      Dick Flairer, the Buffer, and the Resurrection Man. With them I accomplished many successful
      burglaries; but at length I got into trouble a third time, and a stop was put to my career in
      London. It was in the year 1835 that the Resurrection Man and I broke into a jeweller's shop
      in Princes Street, Soho. We got off with a good booty. The Resurrection Man went over to the
      Mint: I let Dick Flairer into the secret, gave him a part of my share in the plunder, and then
      took to a hiding-place which there is in Chick Lane, Smithfield. Now I knew that Dick was
      stanch to the back-bone; and so he proved himself—for he brought me my food as regularly as
      possible; and at the end of a week, the storm had blown over enough to enable me to leave my
      hiding-place. I hastened to join the Resurrection Man in the Mint, where I stayed two or three
      days. Then the miscreant sold me, in order to save himself; and we were both committed to
      Newgate. Tidkins turned King's Evidence; and I was sentenced to transportation for life. The
      Resurrection Man was discharged at the termination of the business of the sessions.  
  room enough for each individual. The hospital was in the fore-part of the vessel,
      and was separated from the prison by means of a bulk-head, in which partition there were two
      strong doors, forming a means of communication between the two compartments. The fore and main
      hatchways, between decks, were fitted up with strong wooden stanchions round them; and in each
      of those stanchions there was a door with three padlocks, to let the convicts in and out, and
      secure them effectually at night. In each hatchway a ladder was placed, for us to go up and
      down by; and these ladders were always pulled on deck after dusk. Scuttle-holes, or small
      ports to open and shut for the admission of air, were cut along the vessel's sides; and in the
      partition between the prison and the hospital was fixed a large stove, with a funnel, which
      warmed and ventilated both compartments at the same time. When we were placed on board the
      convict-ship, we had each a pair of shoes, two pairs of trousers, four shirts, and other warm
      clothing, besides a bed, bolster, and blanket. Of Bibles, Testaments, and Prayer-Books, there
      was also plenty.  
  "The moment the surgeon came on board, he arranged the mess-berths and mess-tables. All the
      clothing, linen, bedding, and other articles were marked with consecutive numerals in black
      paint, from No. 1. up to the highest number of convicts embarked. Thus, we messed and slept
      along the prison-deck in regular numerical progression. In food we were not stinted: each man
      had three-quarters of a pound of biscuit daily; and every day, too, we sate down to beef,
      pork, or pease-soup. Gruel and cocoa were served out for breakfast and supper. Every week we
      received a certain quantity of vinegar, lime-juice, and sugar, which were taken as
      preventatives for scurvy. Each mess selected a head, or chairman, who saw the provisions
      weighed out, and that justice was done in this particular to each individual at his table.  
  "The surgeon selected six of the most fitting amongst the convicts to act the part of petty
      officers, whose duty it was to see his orders punctually executed, and to report instances of
      misconduct. Four of these remained in the prison; and the other two were stationed on deck, to
      watch those convicts who came up in their turns for airing. The   Captains of the Deck  ,
      as the officers were called, had some little extra allowance for their trouble, and were
      moreover allowed a certain quantity of tobacco.  
  "It was in January, 1836, that we sailed for Sydney. Although I had no wife,—no
      children,—and, I may almost say, no friend that I cared about,—still my heart sank within me,
      when, from the deck of the convict-ship, I caught a last glimpse of the white cliffs of Old
      England. Tears came into my eyes; and I, who had not wept since childhood, wept then. But
      there were several of my companions who had left wives and children, or parents, behind them;
      and I could read on their countenances the anguish which filled their inmost souls!  
  "The surgeon was a kind and humane man. The moment we were out of sight of land, he ordered
      our chains to be taken off; and he allowed us to enjoy as much air upon deck as we could
      possibly require. The guard, under the command of a commissioned officer, consisted of
      thirty-one men, and did duty on the quarter-deck in three alternate watches. A sentry, with a
      drawn cutlass, stood at each hatchway; and the soldiers on watch always had their fire-arms
      loaded.  
  "When we had been to sea a little time, most of the convicts relapsed into their old habits
      of swearing, lying, and obscene conversation. They also gambled at pitch and toss, the stakes
      being their rations. Thieving prevailed to a very great extent; for the convict who lost his
      dinner by gambling, was sure to get one by stealing. They would often make wagers amongst
      themselves as to who was the most expert thief; and when the point was put to a practical
      test, dreadful quarrels would arise, the loser of the wager, perhaps, discovering that he
      himself was the victim of the trial of skill, and that his hoard of lime-juice, sugar,
      tobacco, or biscuit had disappeared. Stephens, who was at the same mess with myself, did all
      he could to discourage these practices; but the others pronounced him '  a false
       magician  ,' and even his friend, Mac Chizzle, turned against him. So at last he gave up
      the idea of introducing a reformation amongst his brethren in bondage. The fact is, that any
      convict who attempts to humbug the others by pretensions to honesty, or who expresses some
      superior delicacy of sentiment, which, of course, in many instances is actually experienced,
      had better hang himself at once. The equality of the convict-ship is a frightful equality,—the
      equality of crime,—the levelling influence of villany,—the abolition of all social
      distinctions by the hideous freemasonry of turpitude and its consequent penalties! And yet
      there is an aristocracy, even in the prison of the convict-ship,—an aristocracy consisting of
      the oldest thieves, in contra-distinction to the youngest; and of   townies  , in opposition to   yokels  .  target="#ENG18460_N121" [21]   The deference paid by the younger thieves to the elder
      ones is astonishing; and that man who, in relating his own history, can enumerate the greatest
      number of atrocities, is a king amongst convicts. Some of the best informed of the convicts
      wrote slang journals during the passage, and read them once a-week to the rest. They generally
      referred to the sprees of the night, and contained some such entries as this:—'  A peter
       cracked and frisked, while the cobbles dorsed; Sawbones came and found the glim doused;
       fadded the dobbins in a yokel's crib, while he blew the conkey-horn; Sawbones lipped a
       snitch; togs leered in yokel's downy; yokel screwed with the darbies  .' The exact meaning
      of this is:—'A chest broken open and robbed while the convicts slept: surgeon came in and
      found the lamp put out; the thief thrust the clothes which he had stolen into a countryman's
      berth, while he was snoring fast asleep; the surgeon ordered a general search; the clothes
      were found in the countryman's bed; and the countryman was put into irons.'  
  I am sure to get off.'—Out of a hundred and ten convicts, at least a hundred
      spoke in this manner. But the ship sailed,—England was far behind,—and   not one single
       convict   had his hopes of a commuted sentence gratified. Then, when those hopes had
      disappeared, they all opened their budget of gossip most freely, and related their exploits in
      so frank a manner, that it was very easy to perceive the justice of the verdicts which had
      condemned them.  
  "The voyage out was, on the whole, a tolerably fine one. It lasted four months and a half;
      and it was, consequently, in the middle of May that we arrived in sight of Sydney. But, when
      thus at the point of destination, the sea became so rough, and the wind blew such 'great
      guns,' that the captain declared there was mischief at hand. The convicts were all ordered
      into the prison, the ports of which were closed; and the heat was stifling. The tempest came
      with appalling violence. Crash went every loose thing on board,—the timbers creaked as if they
      would start from their settings,—the ropes rattled,—and the wind whistled horribly through the
      rigging. The ship was lifted to an immense height, and then by the fall of the mountain wave,
      was plunged into the depths of the trough of the sea;—at one moment dipping the studding-sail
      boom into the water,—and the next lying nearly on its beam-ends on the opposite side. I
      afterwards learnt from a sailor, that the waves were forty feet high, twenty below the
      ordinary level of the sea, and twenty above it. Thus, when we were in the trough, they were
      forty feet above our heads! Towards evening the storm subsided; and early next morning Sydney
      broke more clearly upon our view.  
  "Sydney is beautifully situated. It possesses a fine ascent from a noble harbour; and its
      bays, its coves, its gardens, its gentlemen's seats, form a pleasing spectacle. Then its
      forests of masts—the Government-house, with its beautiful domain—the numerous wharfs—the
      thousands of boats upon the glassy water—and Wooloomooloo, with its charming villas and its
      windmills,—all these combine to enhance the interest of the scene. The town itself is far more
      handsome than I had expected to find it. The shops are very fine—particularly the
      silversmiths', the haberdashers', and confectioners', which would not disgrace the West End of
      London. They are mostly lighted with gas, and in the evening have a brilliant appearance.
      There is an astonishing number of grog-shops—nearly two hundred and fifty, for a population of
      30,000 souls. George Street and Pitt Street are the principal thoroughfares: and the rents are
      so high that they average from three to five hundred pounds a-year. There are no common sewers
      in Sydney; and, although the greater portion of the town stands upon a height, yet many of the
      principal streets are perfectly level, and the want of a vent for the foul water and other
      impurities is sadly felt. I may add, that the first appearance of Sydney and its inhabitants
      does not impress a stranger with the idea of being in a country so far away from Europe; the
      language, the manners, and the dress of the people being so closely similar to those of
      England. But wait a little while, and a closer observation produces a different effect.
      Presently you will see the government gangs of convicts, marching backwards and forwards from
      their work in single military file,—solitary ones straggling here and there, with their white
      woollen Paramatta frocks and trousers, or grey or yellow jackets with duck overalls, all
      daubed over with broad arrows and initial letters to denote the establishment to which they
      belong,—and then the gaol-gang, moving sulkily along with their jingling leg-chains,—all these
      sad spectacles telling a tale of crime and its effects, and proclaiming trumpet-tongued the
      narrative of human degradation!  
  "The ship entered the harbour; our irons had already been put on again some days previously;
      and we were all landed under the care of the guard. We were marched to the gaol-yard; and
      there our clothes were all daubed over with broad arrows and the initials P. S.—meaning
       '  Prisoners' Barracks  ,' to which establishment we were conducted as soon as the
      ceremony of painting our garments was completed. This barrack had several large day-rooms and
      numerous sleeping wards, the bedsteads being arranged in two tiers, or large platforms, but
      without separation. In every room there was a man in charge who was answerable for the conduct
      of the rest; but no one ever thought of complaining of the misbehaviour of his companions. A
      tread-mill was attached to the building: there were moreover several solitary cells—a species
      of punishment the horrors of which no tongue can describe.  
  "In the course of a few days we were all divided into sections, according to the degrees of
      punishment which we were to undergo. Stephens and Mac Chizzle were kept at Sydney: I was sent
      with some thirty others to Port Macquarie—a place about two hundred and sixty miles, as the
      crow flies, to the north of Sydney.  
  "The scenery is magnificent in the neighbourhood of Macquarie Harbour: but the life of the
      convict—oh! that is fearful in the extreme! I know that I was a great criminal—I know that my
      deeds demanded a severe punishment; but death had been preferable to a doom like that!
      Compelled to endure every kind of privation,—shut out from the rest of the world,—restricted
      to a very limited quantity of food, which   never   included fresh meat,—kept in chains
      and under a military guard with fixed bayonets and loaded fire-arms,—with no indulgence for
      good conduct, but severe penalties, even flogging or solitary confinement, for the smallest
      offences,—constantly toiling in the wet, at felling timber and rolling it to the water,—forced
      to support without murmuring the most terrible hardships,—how did I curse the day when I
      rendered myself liable to the discipline of this hell upon earth! I will give you an idea of
      the horrors of that place:—during the six months that I remained there, nineteen deaths
      occurred amongst two hundred and twenty convicts; and of those   nineteen  , only five
      were from natural causes. Two were drowned, four were killed by the falling of trees, three
      were shot by the military, and five were murdered by their comrades! And why were those
      murders perpetrated? Because the assassins were tired of life, but had not the courage to
      commit suicide; and therefore they accomplished crimes which were sure to be visited by death
      upon the scaffold!  
  were allowed; and we had to roll the trunks of trees to an immense distance. What
      with the humid climate, the want of fresh meat, and the severity of the labour, no man who
      fell ill ever entertained a hope of recovery. Talk of the civilised notions of the
      English—talk of the humane principles of her penal laws,—why, the Inquisition itself could not
      have been more horrible than the doom of the convict at Macquarie Harbour! Again I say, it was
      true that we were great criminals; but surely some adequate mode of punishment—some mode
      involving the means of   reformation  —might have been devised, without the application
      of so much real physical torture! I have heard or read that when the Inquisition put its
      victims to the rack, it afterwards remanded them to their dungeons, and allowed them leisure
      to recover and be cured;—but in the penal settlement of Port Macquarie those tortures were
      renewed daily—and they killed the miserable sufferers by inches!  
  "Our rations consisted daily of one pound and a half of flour, from which twelve per cent.
      of bran had been subtracted, one pound and a half of salt meat, and half an ounce of soap. No
      tea—no vegetables. The flour was made into cakes called   damper  , cooked in a
      frying-pan; and this wasteful mode of preparing it greatly diminished its quantity. Besides,
      divide those rations into three parts, and you will find that the three meals are little
      enough for men toiling hard from sunrise to sunset. The convict who did not keep a good
      look-out on his provisions was certain to be robbed by his comrades; and some men have been
      plundered to such an extent as actually to have been on the very verge of starvation.  
  "I had not been at Macquarie Harbour more than five months, when Stephens and Mac Chizzle
      arrived, and were added to our chain-gang. This punishment they had incurred for having
      endeavoured to escape from Sydney, where they had been treated with some indulgence, in
      consequence of their station in life previous to their sentence in England. So miserable was
      I, with hard work and scanty food, that I resolved to leave the place, or perish in the
      attempt. I communicated my design to Stephens and Mac Chizzle; and they agreed to accompany
      me. Escape from Macquarie was known to be a most difficult undertaking; and few convicts who
      essayed it were ever able to reach the settlements in other parts of the Colony. They were
      either murdered by their comrades for a supply of food, or perished in the bush. Formidable
      forests had to be traversed; and the chance of catching kangaroos was the only prospect of
      obtaining the means of existence. Nevertheless, I resolved to dare all those horrors and
      fearful risks, rather than remain at Philip's Creek. Five or six others, in addition to
      Stephens and Mac Chizzle, agreed to adopt this desperate venture with me; and one night we
      stole away—to the number of ten—from the huts.  
  "Yes—we thus set out on this tremendous undertaking, each individual possessing no more food
      than was sufficient for a single meal. And ere the sun rose all our store was consumed; and we
      found ourselves in the middle of a vast forest—without a guide—without victuals—almost without
      a hope! Convicts are not the men to cheer each other: misfortunes have made them selfish,
      brutal, and sulky. We toiled on in comparative silence. One of my companions, who had been ten
      years at Macquarie Harbour, was well acquainted with the mode in which the natives search for
      traces of the opossum; and, when hunger began to press upon us, he examined every tree with a
      hollow limb, and also the adjacent trees for marks of the opossum's claws. For, I must tell
      you, that this animal is so sagacious, that it usually runs up a neighbouring tree and thence
      jumps to the one wherein its retreat is, in order to avoid being traced. The convict to whom I
      have alluded, and whose name was Blackley, at length discovered the trail of an opossum, and
      clambered up the tree in which its hole was found, by means of successive notches in the bark,
      to place the great toe in. Having reached the hole, he probed it with a long stick, and found
      that there actually was an opossum within. Thrusting in his hand, he seized the animal by the
      tail, pulled it out, and killed it by a swinging dash against the trunk of a tree. But this
      was little enough among so many. We, however, made a fire, cooked it, and thus contrived just
      to mitigate the terrible cravings of hunger. The flesh of the opossum is like that of a
      rabbit, and is therefore too delicate to enable a hearty appetite to make a good meal on a
      tenth portion of so small an animal.  
  "On the following day Blackley managed to kill a kangaroo, weighing about sixty pounds; and
      thus we were supplied with food for three or four days, acting economically. The flesh of the
      kangaroo is much like venison, and is very fine eating. We continued our way amidst the
      forest, which appeared endless; and in due time the kangaroo's flesh was consumed. Blackley
      was unwearied in his exertions to provide more food; and, so much time was wasted in these
      endeavours, that we made but little progress in our journey. And now, to our terror, Blackley
      could find no more opossums—could kill no more kangaroos. We grew desperate: starvation was
      before us. Moody—sulky—glaring on each other with a horribly significant ferocity, we dragged
      ourselves along. Four days elapsed—and not a mouthful of food had we touched. On the fifth
      night we made a fire, and sate round it at considerable distances from each other. We all
      endeavoured to remain awake: we trembled at the approach of drowsiness—  for we knew the
       consequences of sleep in our desperate condition  the purpose which Blackley had entertained—though in a different manner. Afraid
      to venture away from the party to cut a bludgeon, he drew a large clasp-knife from his pocket,
      and plunged the long sharp blade into the breast of the sleeper. A cry of horror burst from
      Stephens and myself; and we rushed forward—now that it was unfortunately too late—to save the
      victim. We were well aware of the man's intentions when he approached his victim; but it was
      not until the blow was struck that we had the courage to interfere. It was, however, as I have
      said—too late! Mac Chizzle expired without a groan.  
  "I cannot dwell upon this scene: depraved—wicked—criminal as I was in many respects, my soul
      revolted from the idea of cannibalism, now that the opportunity of appeasing my hunger by such
      horrible means was within my reach. Stephens and I retired a little from the rest, and turned
      our backs upon the frightful work that was in progress. Again I say—oh! the horrors of that
      night! I was starving—and food was near. But what food? The flesh of a fellow-creature! In
      imagination I followed the entire process that was in operation so close behind me; and
      presently the hissing of the flesh upon the embers, and the odour of the awful cookery,
      convinced me that the meal would soon be served up. Then how did I wrestle with my own
      inclinations! And Stephens, I could well perceive, was also engaged in a terrific warfare with
      the promptings of hunger. But we resisted the temptation: yes—we resisted it;—and our
      companions did not trouble themselves to invite us to their repast.  
  "At length the morning dawned upon that awful and never-to-be-forgotten night. The fire was
      now extinguished; but near the ashes lay the entrails and the head of the murdered man. The
      cannibals had completely anatomised the corpse, and had wrapped up in their shirts (which they
      took off for the purpose) all that they chose to carry away with them. Not a word was spoken
      amongst us. The last frail links of sympathy—if any really had existed—seemed to have been
      broken by the incidents of the preceding night. Six men had partaken of the horrible repast;
      and they evidently looked on each other with loathing, and on Stephens and myself with
      suspicion. We all with one accord cut thick sticks, and advanced in the direction whence
      Blackley's cries had proceeded a few hours previously. His fate was that which we had
      suspected: an enormous snake was coiled around the wretch's corpse—licking it with its long
      tongue, to cover it with saliva for the purpose of deglutition. We attacked the monstrous
      reptile, and killed it. Its huge coils had actually squeezed our unfortunate comrade to death!
      Then—for the first time for many, many years—did a religious sentiment steal into my soul; and
      I murmured to myself: '  Surely this was the judgment of God upon a man who had meditated
       murder  .'  
  "That same day Stephens and myself gave our companions the slip, and struck into another
      direction together. We were fortunate enough to kill a kangaroo; and we made a hearty meal
      upon a portion of its flesh. Then how did we rejoice that we had withstood the temptation of
      the cannibal banquet! Stephens fell upon his knees and prayed aloud: I imitated his example—I
      joined in his thanksgiving. We husbanded our resources as much as possible; and God was
      merciful to us. We succeeded in killing another kangaroo, even before the first was entirely
      consumed; and this new supply enabled us to reach a settlement without further experiencing
      the pangs of hunger. Prudence now compelled us to separate; for though we had rid ourselves of
      our chains, we were still in our convict garb; and it was evident that two persons so clad
      were more likely to attract unpleasant notice, than one individual skulking about by himself.
      We accordingly parted; and from that moment I have never heard of Stephens. Whether he
      succeeded in escaping from the colony altogether, or whether he took to the bush again and
      perished, I know not:—that he was not retaken I am sure, because, were he captured, he would
      have been sent to Norfolk Island; and that he did   not   visit that most horrible of all
      the penal settlements—at least during a period of eighteen months after our escape from
      Macquarie—I am well aware, for reasons which I shall soon explain.  
  "In fact, I was not long at large after I separated with Stephens. My convict-dress betrayed
      me to a party of soldiers: I was arrested, taken to Sydney, tried, and sentenced to
      transportation to Norfolk Island. Before I left England in 1836, and since my return towards
      the end of 1839, I have heard a great many persons talk about Norfolk Island; but no one
      seemed to know much about it. I will therefore tell you something concerning it now.  
  The prisoners, moreover, have to work in irons; and the food is not only
      insufficient, but bad—consisting only of dry maize bread and hard salt meat. Were it not for
      the supply of wild fruits in the island, the scurvy would rage like a pestilence. Between
      Macquarie Harbour and Norfolk Island I can only draw this distinction—that the former is
         Purgatory  , and the latter   Hell  !  
  "There is no attempt to reform the prisoners in Norfolk Island, beyond prayer-reading—and
      this is of scarcely any benefit. The convicts are too depraved to be amended by mere moral
      lessons: they want   education  ; they require to be   treated like human beings  ,
      instead of brute beasts, criminal though they are; they need   a sufficiency of wholesome
       food  , to enable them to toil with something approaching a good will; they ought to be
         protected against the tyranny of overseers  , who send them to gaol for the most
      trivial offences, or on the slightest suspicions; they should not be   forced to labour in
       chains which gall their ankles almost to the bone  , when a guard with loaded muskets is
      ever near, and seeing that shackles on the legs would not prevent violence with the hands were
      they inclined to have recourse to it; nor should they be   constantly treated as if they
       were merely wild beasts whom it is impossible to tame save by means of privation,
       heart-breaking toil, and the constant sense of utter degradation  . How can men be
      redeemed—reclaimed—reformed by such treatment as this? Let punishment be terrible—not
      horrible. It is monstrous to endeavour to render the criminal more obstinate—to make the
      dangerous one more ferocious—to crush in the soul every inducement to amend—to convert vice
      into hardened recklessness. The tortures of semi-starvation and overwhelming toil, and the
      system of retaining men's minds in a state of moral abasement and degradation in their own
      eyes, will never lead to reform. When at Macquarie Harbour, or at Norfolk Island, I have often
      thought how comparatively easy it would be to reclaim even the very worst among the convicts.
      Teach them   practically   that while there is life there is hope,—that it is   never
       too late to repent  ,—that man can show mercy to the greatest sinner, even as God
      does,—that the most degraded mind may rise from the depths of its abasement,—that society
      seeks reformation and prevention in respect to crime, and not vengeance,—that the Christian
      religion, in a word, exists in the heart as well as in a book. But what sentiments do the
      convicts entertain? They are taught, by oppressive treatment, to lose sight of their own
      turpitude, and therefore to consider that all mankind is bent on inflicting a demoniac
      vengeance upon them;—they look upon the authorities as their persecutors;—they begin to fancy
      that they are worms which are justified in turning on those who tread them under foot;—they
      swear, and blaspheme, and talk obscenely,   merely because there is no earthly solace left
       them save in hardening their own hearts against all kindly sympathies and emotions  ;—they
      receive the Word of God with suspicion, because man does not practically help them to a belief
      in the divine assurance relative to the efficacy of repentance;—they are compelled by terrific
      and unceasing hardships to look upon the tears of a contrite heart as the proofs of moral
      weakness:—and, in a word, they study how to avoid reflections which can lead, so far as they
      can see, to no beneficial end. They therefore welcome hardness of heart, obstinacy, and
      recklessness of disposition as an actual means of escape from thoughts which would, under
      favourable circumstances, lead to moral amendment and reformation.  
  "You may be surprised to hear such ideas from my lips; but I have pondered much and often
      upon this subject. And if ever these words which I am now uttering to you, Henry Holford,
      should find their way into print,—if ever my narrative, with its various reflections, should
      go forth to the world,—be you well assured that these ideas will set people thinking on the
      grand point—  whether society punishes to prevent crime and to reclaim the offender, or
       merely to avenge itself upon him  ?  
  "My own prospects were gloomy enough. My life was to be passed in exile, misery, and
      torture. I loathed my associates. They took all possible pains to tease and annoy each other.
      They converted a beautiful spot—one of the loveliest islands in the world—into a perfect hell
      upon earth;—and seemed determined to supply any deficiency which the authorities had left in
      the sum of our unhappiness. They concocted various schemes of mischief, and then the most
      hardened would betray their comrades merely for the pleasure of seeing them flogged! I never
      shall forget a convict saying to me one day, 'I doubt the existence of a God; but I wish, if
      there is one, that he would take away my life, for I am so very miserable. I have only six
      years more to serve; and I am determined either to escape, or to murder some one and get
      hanged for it.'—This man's name was Anson; and from that moment he and I had frequent
      conversations together relative to an escape from the island. But how few were our hopes?
      Surrounded by the ocean—pent up in so narrow a space, as it were—so distant from all other
      lands—fearful to confide in our companions—and unable to carry our scheme into effect without
      assistance, we were frequently induced to give it up in despair.  
  Commandant, lay close by the shore; and we knew that there were only a man and a
      boy on board at that time. Our project was a desperate one; but the risk was worth running,
      seeing the result to be gained—namely, our freedom. When our arrangements were completed, we
      all four one evening absconded as we were returning home from the day's toils, and took refuge
      in the cave. No time was to be lost. About midnight, Anson and I swam off to the yacht,
      contrived to get on board, seized each a windlass-bar, and, descending to the cabin, mastered
      the man and the boy. We bound them in such a way that they could not leave their hammocks; and
      then we fastened down the hatchway to drown their cries in case they should shout for
      assistance. We next lowered the little skiff, and returned to land. Our companions joined us,
      with the bag of biscuit and the clothes, at a point previously agreed upon; and we all
      succeeded in reaching the cutter in safety. Then we set sail; and, favoured by the darkness of
      the night, got clear away without having excited on shore a suspicion that the yacht had moved
      from its moorings.  
  "As we had conjectured, there was very little provision on board; for the Commandant never
      used the yacht for more than a few hours' trip at a time. We had therefore done wisely to
      provide the biscuit; but there was not two days' supply of meat on board. We accordingly
      steered for the back of Philip Island, which we knew to abound in pigs and goats, and to be
      uninhabited by man. Anson and another of our companions went on shore with fire-arms, which we
      had found in the cutter; and within two hours after day-light they shot four pigs and thirteen
      goats. Myself and the other convict, who remained on board to take care of the vessel and
      guard the seaman and the boy, caught several king-fish and rock-cod. We were thus well
      provisioned; and another trip to the shore filled our water-casks. We next proposed to the
      seaman and boy either to join us, or to take the skiff and return to Norfolk Island as best
      they might. They preferred the latter offer; and we accordingly suffered them to depart, after
      compelling the sailor to exchange his clothes for one of our convict suits; so that we had now
      a proper garb each. In their presence we had talked of running for New Caledonia—an Island to
      the north of Norfolk Island; but the moment they were gone, we set sail for New Zealand, which
      is precisely in a contrary direction—being to the south of Norfolk Island. Our craft was but
      little better than a cockle-boat: it was, however, decked; fine weather prevailed; and
      moreover, it was better to die by drowning than perish by the gradual tortures of a penal
      settlement.  
  "We were in sight of New Zealand, when a fearful storm came on suddenly at an early hour on
      the thirteenth morning after we had quitted Norfolk Island. A tremendous sea broke over our
      little craft, and washed poor Anson over-board. The other two convicts and myself did all we
      could to save the vessel, and run her into a bay which we now descried in the distance; but
      our inexperience in nautical matters was put to a severe test. When our condition was
      apparently hopeless, and we expected that the sea would swallow us up, a large bark hove in
      sight. We made signals of distress; and the vessel steered towards us. But a mountainous wave
      struck the stern of the cutter, and stove in her timbers. She immediately began to fill. We
      cut away the boom, and clung to it as to a last hope. The vessel went down; and, small as it
      was, it formed a vortex which for a few moments sucked us under, spar and all. But we rose
      again to the surface, clinging desperately to the boom. Suddenly one of my comrades uttered a
      fearful cry—a cry of such wild agony that it rings in my ears every time I think of that
      horrible incident. I glanced towards him: the water was for an instant tinged with blood—a
      shark had bitten off one of the wretched man's legs! Oh! what an agony of fear I experienced
      then. The poor creature continued to shriek in an appalling manner for a few seconds: then he
      loosened his hold upon the spar, and disappeared in the raging element. My only surviving
      companion and myself exchanged looks of unutterable horror.  
  "We were drifting rapidly in the direction of the bark, which on its side was advancing
      towards us. When within hail, it lowered a boat. But I was destined to be the only survivor of
      the four convicts who had escaped from Norfolk Island. When only a few yards from the boat, my
      companion suddenly relaxed his hold upon the spar, and sank with a loud cry—to rise no more.
      The water was not tinged with blood—and therefore I do not suppose that he was attacked by a
      shark: most probably a sudden cramp seized him;—but, whatever the cause, he perished! I was
      dragged in an exhausted state into the boat, and was speedily safe on board the bark.  
  "The vessel was a trading one, and bound for Hobart Town, whence it was to sail for England.
      I gave so plausible an account of the shipwrecked cutter, that the real truth was not
      suspected, especially as I was attired in a sailor's dress; and as the bark was not to remain
      many days at Hobart Town, where, moreover, I was not known, I entertained the most sanguine
      hopes of being able to ensure my safe return to England. In three weeks,—after encountering
      much bad weather—we entered the Derwent; and, taking in a pilot, were carried safe up to
      Sullivan's Cove.  
  about six hundred prisoners, and is the principal receptacle for newly-arrived
      convicts. They are sent out in gangs, under overseers and guards, to work on the roads, or as
      carpenters, builders, sawyers, or masons, in the various departments.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "After remaining almost a fortnight at Hobart Town, the bark sailed for England, by way of
      Cape Horn; and I was now relieved from all fears of detection—at least for the present. As I
      have spoken of the condition of the female convicts in Hobart Town, I may as well give you
      some account of how transportation affects women; for you may be sure that I heard enough of
      that subject both at Sydney and at Macquarie Harbour. A female-convict ship is fitted up on
      precisely the same plan as that of the men, with the addition of shelves whereon to stow away
      the tea-crockery. The women's rations are the same as the men's, with the extra comforts of
      tea and sugar. This they have for breakfast, and oatmeal for supper. No guard of soldiers is
      required on board: nor is there a bulk-head across the upper deck in mid-ships. Instead of
         captains of the vessel  , there are matrons appointed by the surgeon to take care of
      the   morals   of the rest; and these matrons are usually old brothel-keepers or
      procuresses, who know how to feign a sanctity which produces a favourable impression in their
      behalf. Women convicts are dreadfully quarrelsome; and their language is said to be more
      disgusting and filthy than that of the men. However vigilant the surgeon may be, it is
      impossible altogether to prevent intercourse between the females and the sailors; and it often
      happens that some of the   fair ones  , on their arrival in the colony, are in a way to
      increase the Australian population. Perhaps the surgeon himself may take a fancy to one or two
      of the best-looking; and these are sure to obtain great indulgences—such as being appointed
      nurses to the sick, or being permitted to remain on the sick-list throughout the voyage, which
      is an excuse for allowing them wine and other little comforts. The women always speak
         to   and   of   each other as   ladies  ; and the old procuresses, when
      chosen as matrons, are treated with the respectful   Mrs.   Thus it is always,
       '  Ladies  , come for'ard for your pork;' or '  Ladies  , come up for your
      biscuit;' or '  Ladies  cooked.' Of an evening they dance or sing,—and as often quarrel and fight. This
      cannot be wondered at, when it is remembered that there is no attempt at classification; and
      women who may have been chaste in person, though criminal in other respects, are compelled to
      herd with prostitutes of all degrees, from the lowest trull that skulks in the courts leading
      out of Fleet Street to the fashionable nymph who displays her charms at the theatre. The very
      chastity of a woman who has been sentenced perhaps for robbing furnished lodgings, or
      plundering her master in her capacity of servant, or for committing a forgery, is made a
      reproach to her by the prostitutes and old procuresses; and her life is miserable. Moreover,
      it is next to impossible that she can escape a contamination which prepares her for a life of
      profligacy when she reaches the colony.  
  "Before the female convict-ship leaves the Thames, numbers of old procuresses and
      brothel-keepers go on board to take leave of the girls with whom they are acquainted. These
      hags, dressed out in their gayest garb, and pretending to be overwhelmed with grief (while
      they really are with gin), represent themselves to be the mothers or aunts of the '  poor
       dear creatures  ' who have got into trouble, and assure the surgeon that their so-called
      daughters or nieces were most excellent girls and bore exemplary characters previous to their
      present '  misfortune  .' The surgeon—if a novice, or a humane man—believes the tale, and
      is sure to treat with kindness the '  poor creatures  ' thus recommended to him. About
      twenty years ago a Religious Society in London sent out, in an emigrant ship, twelve
       '  reclaimed unfortunate girls  ,' with the hope that they might form good matrimonial
      connexions among the free settlers in the colony; there always having been—especially at
      first—a great dearth of European females in Australia. These girls were called the   Twelve
       Apostles  ; and all England rang with the good work which had been accomplished by the
      Religious Society. But on the arrival of the Twelve Apostles at Sydney, seven of them were
      found to be in the family way by the sailors; and the others immediately entered on a course
      of unbounded licentiousness.  target="#ENG18460_N122" [22]    
  "A few days before the female convict-vessel arrives at Sydney, the women—old and young—busy
      themselves in getting ready their finery for landing. The debarkation of female convicts
      always takes place with great effect. The prostitutes appear in their most flaunting attire;
      and many of them have gold ornaments about them. They are then sent to the Paramatta Factory.
      This establishment cannot be looked on as a place of punishment—nor as a place of reformation.
      The inmates are well fed, and are put to no labour. There is an extensive garden, in which
      they can walk at pleasure. Some of them are allotted to free settlers requiring servants; but
      the grand hope of the female convict is to marry. This prospect is materially aided by the
      fact that both free settlers and ticket-of-leave convicts are allowed to seek for help-mates
      in the Factory. When they call for that purpose, the fair penitents are drawn up in a row; and
      the wife-seeking individual inspects them as a general does his army, or a butcher the sheep
      in Smithfield Market. If he fancies one of the candidates, he beckons her from the rank, and
      they retire to a distance to converse. Should a matrimonial arrangement be made, the business
      is soon finished by the aid of a clergyman; but if no amicable understanding is come to, the
      nymph returns to the rank, and the swain chooses another—and so on, until the object of his
      visit is accomplished. So anxious are the unmarried free settlers or the ticket-of-leave
      convicts to change their single state of blessedness, and so ready are the fair sex to meet
      their wishes, that few women whose husbands die remain widows a couple of days; some not more
      than four-and-twenty hours. A few years before I was in the colony, an old settler saw a
      convict-girl performing penance on a market-day, with her gown-tail drawn over her head, for
      drunkenness and disorderly conduct in the Factory. He walked straight up to her—regardless of
      the hootings of the crowd—and proposed marriage. She was candid enough to confess to him that
      she was five months gone in the family way by a master to whom she had been allotted ere she
      returned to the Factory; but the amorous swain, who was nearly sixty, was so much struck by
      her black eyes and plump shape, that he expressed his readiness to take her 'for better or
      worse;' and she had not left the place of punishment an hour, ere she was married to one of
      the richest settlers in the colony.  target="#ENG18460_N123" [23]    
  "I will tell you one more anecdote relative to Australian marriages. A very handsome woman
      was transported for shop-lifting—her third offence of the kind. She left a husband behind her
      in England. On her arrival at Sydney she was allotted to an elderly gentleman, a free settler,
      and who, being a bachelor, sought to make her his mistress. She, however, resisted his
      overtures, hoping that he would make her his wife, as he was not aware that she had a husband
      in her native country. Time wore on, he urgent—she obstinate,—he declining matrimonial bonds.
      At length she received a black-edged letter from her mother in England; and upon being
      questioned by her master, she stated '  that its contents made a great alteration in her
       circumstances  .' More she would not tell him. He was afraid of losing his handsome
      servant; and agreed to marry her. They were united accordingly. When the nuptial knot was
      indissolubly tied, he begged his beloved wife to explain the nature of the black-edged letter.
       '  There is now no need for any further mystery  ,' she said, '  The truth is, I could
       not marry you before, because I had a husband living in England. That black-edged letter
       conveyed to me the welcome news that he was hanged five months ago at the Old Bailey; and
       thus nothing now stands in the way of our happiness  .'—And that woman made the rich
      settler a most exemplary wife.  
  "I have now given you an insight into the morals of the female, as well as those of the male
      convicts; and you may also perceive that while transportation is actually a means of pleasing
      variety of scene and habits to the woman, it is an earthly hell to the man. I know that
      transportation is spoken of as something very light—a mere change of climate—amongst those
      thieves in England who have never yet crossed the water; but they are woefully mistaken!
      Transportation was   once  for her husband to be allotted to her as her servant, by which step he became a
      free man, opened a public-house or some kind of shop, and made a fortune. Those were glorious
      times for convicts; but all that system has been changed. Now you have Road-Gangs, and
      Hulk-Gangs, and Quarrying-Gangs,—men who work in chains, and who cannot obtain a sufficiency
      of food! There is also Norfolk Island—a Garden of Eden in natural loveliness, rendered an
      earthly hell by human occupation. Oh! let not the opinion prevail that transportation is no
      punishment; let not those who are young in the ways of iniquity, pursue their career under the
      impression that exile to Australia is nothing more than a pleasant change of scene! They will
      too soon discover how miserably they are mistaken; and when they feel the galling chain upon
      their ankles,—when they find themselves toiling amidst the incessant damps of Macquarie, or on
      the hard roads of Van Diemen's Land, or in the quarries of Norfolk Island,—when they are
      labouring in forests where every step may arouse a venomous snake whose bite is death, or
      where a falling tree may crush them beneath its weight,—when they are exposed to the brutality
      of overseers, or the still more intolerable cruelty of their companions,—when they sleep in
      constant dread of being murdered by their fellow-convicts, and awake only to the dull monotony
      of a life of intense and heart-breaking labour,—then will they loathe their very existence,
      and dare all the perils of starvation, or the horrors of cannibalism, in order to escape from
      those scenes of ineffable misery!  
  "But I need say no more upon this subject. The bark, in which I worked my passage to Europe,
      reached England in safety; and I was once more at large in my native country. Yes—I was free
      to go whithersoever I would—and to avenge myself on him who had betrayed me to justice! The
      hope of some day consummating that vengeance had never deserted me from the moment I was
      sentenced in the Central Criminal Court. It had animated me throughout all the miseries, the
      toils, and the hardships which I have related to you. It inspired me with courage to dare the
      dangers of an escape from Macquarie: its effect was the same when I resolved upon quitting
      Norfolk Island. I have once had my mortal foe within my reach; but my hand dealt not the blow
      with sufficient force. It will not fail next time. I know that vengeance is a crime; but I
      cannot subdue those feelings which prompt me to punish the man whose perfidy sent me into
      exile. In all other respects I am reformed—completely reformed. Not that the authorities in
      Australia or Norfolk Island have in any way contributed to this moral change which has come
      over me: no—my own meditations and reflections have induced me to toil in order to earn an
      honest livelihood. I will never steal again: I will die sooner. I would also rather die by my
      own hand than return to the horrors of Macquarie or Norfolk Island. But my vengeance—Oh! I
      must gratify my vengeance;—and I care not what may become of me afterwards!"  
  Crankey Jem then related so much of his adventures with the gipsies as did not involve a
      betrayal of any of their secrets, and concluded his recital by a concise account of his sudden
      meeting with, and attack upon, the Resurrection Man   at a certain house in St.
      Giles's  .  
  
  CHAPTER CXCII.   THE MINT.—THE FORTY THIEVES.  
  Reader, if you stroll down that portion of the Southwark Bridge Road which lies between
      Union Street and Great Suffolk Street, you will perceive, midway, and on your left hand, a
      large mound of earth heaped on an open space doubtless, intended for building-ground.  
  At the southern extremity of this mound (on which all the offal from the adjacent houses is
      thrown, and where vagabond boys are constantly collected) is the entrance into an assemblage
      of miserable streets, alleys, and courts, forming one of the vilest, most dangerous, and most
      demoralised districts of this huge metropolis.  
  The houses are old, gloomy, and sombre. Some of them have the upper part, beginning with the
      first floor, projecting at least three feet over the thoroughfares—for we cannot say over the
      pavement. Most of the doors stand open, and reveal low, dark, and filthy passages, the mere
      aspect of which compels the passer-by to get into the middle of the way, for fear of being
      suddenly dragged into those sinister dens, which seem fitted for crimes of the blackest
      dye.  
  This is no exaggeration.  
  Even in the day-time one shudders at the cut-throat appearance of the places into the full
      depths of whose gloom the eye cannot entirely penetrate. But, by night, the Mint,—for it is of
      this district that we are now writing,—is far more calculated to inspire the boldest heart
      with alarm, than the thickest forest or the wildest heath ever infested by banditti.  
  The houses in the Mint give one an idea of those dens in which murder may be committed
      without the least chance of detection. And yet that district swarms with population. But of
      what kind are its inhabitants? The refuse and the most criminal of the metropolis.  
  There people follow trades as a blind to avert suspicions relative to their real calling:
      for they are actually housebreakers or thieves themselves, or else the companions and abettors
      of such villains.  
  In passing through the mazes of the Mint—especially in Mint Street itself—you will observe
      more ill-looking fellows and revolting women in five minutes than you will see either on
      Saffron Hill or in Bethnal Green in an hour. Take the entire district that is bounded on the
      north by Peter Street, on the south by Great Suffolk Street, on the east by Blackman Street
      and High Street, and on the west by the Southwark Bridge Road,—take this small section of the
      metropolis, and believe us when we state that within those limits there is concentrated more
      depravity in all its myriad phases, than many persons could suppose to exist in the entire
      kingdom.  
  description of buzgloaks, dummy-hunters, area-sneaks, and vampers who dwell in
      that district.  
  There is no part of Paris that can compare with the Mint in squalor, filth, or moral
      depravity;—no—not even the street in the Island of the City, where Eugene Sue has placed his
      celebrated   tapis-franc  .  
  Let those who happen to visit the Mint, after reading this description thereof, mark well
      the countenances of the inhabitants whom they will meet in that gloomy labyrinth. Hardened
      ruffianism characterises the men;—insolent, leering, and shameless looks express the depravity
      of the women;—the boys have the sneaking, shuffling manner of juvenile thieves;—the girls,
      even of a tender age, possess the brazen air of incipient profligacy.  
  It was about nine o'clock in the evening when the Resurrection Man, wrapped in a thick and
      capacious pea-coat, the collar of which concealed all the lower part of his countenance,
      turned hastily from the Southwark Bridge Road into Mint Street.  
  The weather was piercingly cold, and the sleet was peppering down with painful violence: the
      Resurrection Man accordingly buried his face as much as possible in the collar of his coat,
      and neither looked to the right nor left as he proceeded on his way.  
  To this circumstance may be attributed the fact that one so cautious and wary as he, should
      now fail to observe that his motions were watched and his steps dogged by a lad whose
      countenance was also well concealed by a high collar which was drawn up to his ears.  
  In order to avoid unnecessary mystification, we may as well observe that this youth was
      Henry Holford.  
  The Resurrection Man pursued his way along Mint Street, and suddenly turned into a small
      court on the left-hand side. There he knocked at a door in a peculiar manner, whistling a
      single sharp shrill note at the same time; and in another moment Holford saw him enter the
      house.  
  "Well, Mr. Tidkins," said a boy of about fourteen, who had opened the door to admit the
      formidable individual with whom he was evidently well acquainted: "a preshus cold night, arn't
      it?"  
  "Very, my lad," answered the Resurrection Man, turning down his collar, so that the light of
      the candle which the boy held, gleamed upon his cadaverous countenance. "Is the Bully Grand at
      home?"  
  A reply in the affirmative was given; and the boy led the way, up a narrow and dilapidated
      staircase, to a large room where a great number of youths, whose ages varied from twelve to
      eighteen, were seated at a table, drinking and smoking.  
  The organisation of this society of juvenile reprobates requires a detailed notice.  
  The association consisted of thirty-nine co-equals and one chief who was denominated the
      Bully Grand. The fraternity was called   The Forty Thieves  ;—whether in consequence of
      the founders having accidentally amounted to precisely that number, or whether with the idea
      of emulating the celebrated heroes of the Arabian tale, we cannot determine.  
  The society had, however, been established for upwards of thirty years at the time of which
      we are writing,—  and is in existence at this present moment  .  
  The rules of the association may thus be briefly summed up:—The society consists of Forty
      Members, including the Bully Grand. Candidates for admission are eligible at twelve years of
      age. When a member reaches the age of eighteen, he must retire from the association. This rule
      does not, however, apply to the Bully Grand, who is not eligible for that situation until he
      has actually reached the age of eighteen, and has been a member for at least four years. Each
      candidate for membership must be guaranteed as to eligibility and   honour   (that
         honour   which is necessary amongst thieves) by three members of good standing in the
      society; and should any member misconduct himself, or withhold a portion of any booty which he
      may acquire, his guarantees are responsible for him. The Bully Grand must find twelve
      guarantees amongst the oldest members. His power is in most respects absolute; and the
      greatest deference is paid to him.  
  The modes of proceeding are as follow:—The metropolis is divided into twelve districts
      distinguished thus:—1. The Regent's Park; 2. Pentonville; 3. Hoxton; 4. Finsbury; 5. City; 6.
      Tower Hamlets; 7. Westminster; 8. Pimlico; 9. Hyde Park; 10. Grosvenor Square; 11. Lambeth;
      12. The Borough. Three members are allotted to each district, and are changed in due rotation
      every day. Thus the three who take the Regent's Park district on a Monday, pass to the
      Pentonville district on Tuesday, the Hoxton district on Wednesday, and so on. Thus thirty-six
      members are every day employed in the district-service. The Bully Grand and the three others
      in the meantime attend to the disposal of the stolen property, and to the various business of
      the fraternity. In every district there is a public-house, or boozing-ken, in the interest of
      the association; and to the landlords of these flash cribs is the produce of each day's work
      consigned in the evening. The house in the Mint is merely a place of meeting once a fortnight,
      a residence for the Bully Grand, and the central   depôt   to which articles
      are conveyed from the care of the district boozing-kens.  
  The minor regulations and bye-laws may be thus summed up:—Of the three members allotted to
      each district, the oldest member acts as the chief, and guides the plan of proceedings
      according to his discretion. Should any member be proved to have secreted booty, his
      guarantees must pay the value of it; and with them rests the punishment of the defaulter.
      General meetings take place at the head-quarters in the Mint on the first and third Wednesday
      in every month; but if the Bully Grand wishes to call an extraordinary assembly, or to summon
      any particular member or members to his presence, he must leave notices to that effect with
      the landlords of the district houses-of-call. The members are to effect no robberies by
      violence, nor to break into houses: their proceedings must be effected by sleight of hand,
      cunning, and artifice. All disputes must be referred to the Bully Grand for settlement. The
      booty must be converted into money, and the cash divided fairly between all the members every
      fortnight, a certain percentage being allotted by way of salary to the Bully Grand.  
  Such are the principles upon which the association of the Forty Thieves is based. Every
      precaution is adopted, by means of the guarantees, to prevent the admission of unsuitable
      members, and to ensure the fidelity and   honour  an honest hard-working boy, belonging to poor but respectable parents   in the
       country  ;" or "that so convinced is the witness of the lad's innocence, that he will
      instantly take him into his service if the magistrate will discharge him." While a member
      remains in prison previous to trial, the funds of the association provide him with the best
      food allowed to enter the gaol; and, if he be condemned to a term of incarceration in the
      House of Correction, he looks forward to the banquet that will be given in the Mint to
      celebrate the day of his release. Moreover, a member does not lose his right to a share of the
      funds realised during his imprisonment. Thus every inducement is adopted to prevent members
      who "get into trouble" from peaching against their comrades, or making any revelations
      calculated to compromise the safety of the society.  
  It was a fortnightly meeting of the society when the Resurrection Man visited the house in
      the Mint, on the occasion of which we were ere now speaking.  
  The Forty Thieves were all gathered round a board formed of several rude deal tables placed
      together, and literally groaning beneath the weight of pewter-pots, bottles, jugs, &amp;c.  
  The tallow-candles burnt like stars seen through a mist, so dense was the tobacco-smoke in
      the apartment.  
  At the upper end of the table sate the Bully Grand—a tall, well-dressed, good-looking young
      man, with a profusion of hair, but no whiskers, and little of that blueish appearance on the
      chin which denotes a beard. His aspect was therefore even more juvenile than was consistent
      with his age, which was about twenty-five. He possessed a splendid set of teeth, of which he
      seemed very proud; and his delicate white hand, which had never been applied to any harder
      work than picking pockets, was waved gently backward and forward when he spoke.  
  Around the table there were fine materials for the study of a phrenologist. Such a
      concatenation of varied physiognomies was not often to be met with; because none of the
      charities nor amenities of life were there delineated;—those countenances were indices only of
      vice in all its grades and phases.  
  The Resurrection Man was welcomed with a hum of applause on the part of the members, and
      with out-stretched hands by the Bully Grand near whom he was invited to take a seat.  
  "The business of the evening is over, Mr. Tidkins," said Mr. Tunks,—for so the Bully Grand
      was named; "and we are now deep in the pleasures of the meeting, as you see. Help yourself!
      There are spirits of all kinds, and pipes or cigars—whichever you prefer."  
  "Have you any information to give me?" inquired Tidkins in a low tone.  
  "Plenty—but not at this moment, Mr. Tidkins. Take a glass of something to dispel the cold;
      and by-and-bye we will talk on matters of business. There is plenty of time; and many of my
      young friends here would no doubt be proud to give you a specimen of their vocal powers. Let
      me see—who's turn is it?"  
  "Leary Lipkins's, sir," whispered a boy who sate near the Bully Grand.  
  "Oh! Leary Lipkins—is it?" said Tunks aloud. "Now, brother Lipkins, the company are waiting
      for an opportunity to drink to your health and song."  
  Mr. Lipkins—a sharp-looking, hatchet-faced, restless-eyed youth of about sixteen—did not
      require much pressing ere he favoured his audience with the following sample of vocal
      melody:—  
  
  THE SIGN OF THE FIDDLE.  
  There's not in all London a tavern so gay,  
  As that where the knowing ones meet of a day:  
  So long as a farthing remains to my share,  
  I'll drink at that tavern, and never elsewhere.  
  Yet it is not that comforts there only combine,  
  Nor because it dispenses good brandy and wine;  
  'Tis not the sweet odour of pipe nor cigar—  
  Oh! no—'tis a something more cozie by far!  
  'Tis that friends of the light-fingered craft are all nigh,  
  Who'd drink till the cellar itself should be dry,  
  And teach you to feel how existence may please,  
  When pass'd in the presence of cronies like these.  
  Sweet Sign of the Fiddle! how long could I dwell  
  In thy tap full of smoke, with the friends I love well;  
  When bailiffs no longer the alleys infest,  
  And duns, like their bills, have relapsed into rest.    
  "Bravo!" "Brayvo!" "Bra-ah-vo!" echoed on all sides, when this elegant effusion was brought
      to a close.  
  The Bully Grand then rose, and spoke in the following manner:—  
  "Gentlemen, in proposing the health of our excellent brother Leary Lipkins, I might spare
      eulogy, his merits being so well known to us all. But I feel that there are times when it is
      necessary to expatiate somewhat on the excellent qualities of the leading members of our
      honourable Society—in order to encourage an emulative feeling in the breasts of our younger
      brethren. Such an occasion is the present one, when we are all thus sociably assembled.
      Gentlemen, you all know Leary Lipkins! (Cheers, and cries of "We do! we do!") You all know
      that he is indeed leary in every sense of the word. (Hear! hear!) He can see through the best
      bit of broad cloth that ever covered a swell's pocket. There seems to be a sort of magnetic
      attraction between his fingers and a gold watch in the fob of a Bond Street lounger. (Cheers.)
      Talk of mesmerism! why—Leary Lipkins can send a gentleman into a complete state of
         coma   as he walks along the streets, so that he never can possibly feel Leary's hands
      in his pockets. Gentlemen, I hold Leary Lipkins up to you as an excellent example; and beg to
      propose his very good health."  
  The toast was drunk with "three times three."  
  Mr. Lipkins returned thanks in what a newspaper-reporter would term "a neat speech;" and he
      then exercised the usual privilege of calling upon a particular individual for a song.  
  A certain Master Tripes Todkinson accordingly indulged his companions in the following
      manner:—  
  
  THE COMPASSIONATE LADY AND THE CHIMNEY-SWEEP.  
  "Pray, who's the little boy that is dancing so nimbly?  
  Come, Mary, bring a halfpenny down.—"  
  "Please, ma'am, I'm the feller as swept your chimbley,  
  And I'm very much obleeged for the brown.—"  
  "Alas! how his schooling has been neglected!  
  But perhaps his kind father's dead?—"  
  "No, ma'am; he's a tinker as is wery much respected  
  And this mornin' he's drunk in bed.—"  
  "Perchance 'tis a motherless child that they've fixed on  
  To dance. Does your mamma live still?—"  
  "Yes, ma'am; at this moment she's stayin' at Brixton,  
  Vith a gen'leman as keeps a mill.—"  
  target="#ENG18460_N124"/ 
  "Poor child, he is miserably clad! How shocking!  
  Not to give him some clothes were a sin!—"  
  "Thank'ee, ma'am; but I doesn't want no shoe nor stocking,  
  I'd rayther have a quartern o' gin!"  
  
  The Bully Grand proposed the health Of Master Tripes Todkinson, in a speech which was
      mightily applauded; and Master Tripes Todkinson, having duly returned thanks, called on Master
      Bandy-legged Diggs to continue the vocal harmony.  
  This invitation was responded to with as much readiness as Master Diggs would have displayed
      in easing an elderly gentleman in a crowd of his purse; and the air with which he favoured his
      audience ran thus:—  
  
  THE LAST OATH.  
  Upon the drop he turned  
  To swear a parting oath;  
  He cursed the parson and Jack Ketch,  
  And he coolly damned them both.  
  He listened to the hum  
  Of the crowds that gathered nigh;  
  And he carelessly remarked,  
  "What a famous man am I!"  
  Beside the scaffold's foot  
  His mistress piped her eye:  
  She waved to him her dirty rag,  
  And whimpering said, "Good bye!"  
  She mourned the good old times  
  That ne'er could come again,  
  When he brought her home a well-lined purse;—  
  But all her tears were vain!  
  Poor Jack was soon turned off,  
  And gallantly was hung:  
  There was a sigh in every breast,  
  A groan on every tongue.  
  Go—gaze upon his corse,  
  And remember then you see  
  The bravest robber that has been,  
  Or ever more shall be!  
  
  We need scarcely observe that this chant was received with as much favour as the preceding
      ones. The Resurrection Man was, however, growing impatient; for the reader doubtless
      comprehends enough of his character to be well aware that Tidkins was not one who loved
      pleasure better than business. He looked at his watch, and cast a significant glance towards
      the Bully Grand.  
  "What o'clock is it, Mr. Tidkins?" inquired that great functionary.  
  "Half-past ten," was the answer.  
  "Well, I will devote my attention to you in a few minutes," said Tunks. "You may rest
      perfectly easy—I have obtained information on every point in which you are interested.
      But—hark! Shuffling Simon is going to speak!"  
  A lad of about seventeen, who had a weakness in the joints of his knees, and walked in a
      fashion which had led to the nickname mentioned by the Bully Grand, rose from his seat, and
      proposed the health of Mr. Tunks, the chief of the society of the Forty Thieves.  
  Then followed a tremendous clattering of bottles and glasses as the company filled up
      bumpers in order to pay due honour to the toast; and every one, save the Grand himself, rose.
      The health was drunk with rounds of applause: a pause of a few moments ensued; and then
      Shuffling Simon commenced the following complimentary song, in the repetition of which all the
      other adherents of the Chief vociferously joined:—  
  
  PROSPER THE GRAND.  
  Prosper our Bully Grand,  
  Great Tunks, our noble Grand;  
  Prosper the Grand  
  Send him good swag enough,  
  Heart made of sterling stuff,  
  Long to be up to snuff;—  
  Prosper the Grand.  
  Save him from all mishaps,  
  Scatter blue-bottle traps  
  Throughout the land  
  Confound the busy beak,  
  Flourish the area-sneak;  
  In Tunks a chief we seek;—  
  Prosper the Grand!  
  The best lush on the board  
  To Tunks's health be poured  
  By all the band!  
  May he continue free,  
  Nor ever tread-mill see;  
  And all shall shout with glee,  
  Prosper the Grand!'  
  
  It was really extremely refreshing for the Resurrection Man to contemplate the deep
      manifestation of loyalty with which the thirty-nine thieves sang the preceding air.  
  Nor less was it an imposing spectacle when the object of that adoration rose from his seat,
      waved his right hand, and poured forth his gratitude in a most gracious speech.  
  This ceremony being accomplished, the Grand (what a pity it was that so elegant and elevated
      a personage had retained his unworthy patronymic of   Tunks  !) took a candle from the
      table, and conducted the Resurrection Man down stairs into a back room, which the Chief
      denominated his "private parlour."  
  "Now for your information," said the Resurrection Man, somewhat impatiently. "In the first
      place, have you discovered any thing concerning Crankey Jem Cuffin?"  
  "My emissaries have been successful in every instance," answered Tunks, with a complacent
      smile. "A man exactly corresponding with your description of Crankey Jem dwells in an obscure
      court in Drury Lane. Here is the address."  
  "Any tidings of Margaret Flathers?" inquired Tidkins.  
  "She has married a young man who answers to your description of Skilligalee; and they keep a
      small chandlery-shop in Pitfield Street, Hoxton Old Town. The name of Mitchell is over the
      door."  
  "Your lads are devilish sharp fellows, Bully Grand," said the Resurrection Man,
      approvingly.  
  "With thirty-six emissaries all over London every day, it is not so very difficult to obtain
      such information as you required," returned Tunks. "Moreover, you paid liberally in advance;
      and the boys will always be glad to serve you."  
  "Now for the next question," said Tidkins. "Any news of the old man that Tomlinson goes to
      see sometimes?"  
  "Yes—he lives in a small lodging in Thomas Street, Bethnal Green," was the answer. "There is
      his address also. His name is Nelson:—you best know whether it is his right one or not. That
      is no business of mine. Mr. Tomlinson regularly calls on him every Sunday afternoon, and
      passes some hours with him. The old man never stirs out, and is very unwell."  
  "Have you been able to learn any thing concerning Katherine Wilmot?"  
  "There I have also succeeded," replied Mr. Tunks. "My boys discovered that, after the trial
      of Katherine, she lunched with some friends at an inn in the Old Bailey, and shortly
      afterwards left in a post-chaise. She was accompanied by an old lady; and the chaise took them
      to Hounslow."  
  "And there, I suppose, all traces of them disappear?" said the Resurrection Man,
      inquiringly.  
  "Not at all. I sent Leary Lipkins down to Hounslow yesterday; and he discovered that Miss
      Wilmot is staying at a farm-house belonging to a Mr. and Mrs. Bennet."  
  "Precisely!" exclaimed the Resurrection Man. "That Mrs. Bennet was a witness on the trial. I
      remember reading all about it. She was the sister of the woman whom Reginald Tracy
      murdered."  
  "The farm is only a short distance from Hounslow," observed the Bully Grand: "any one in the
      town can direct you to it. Most probably it was with this Mrs. Bennet that Miss Wilmot
      travelled in the post-chaise."  
  "Evidently so," said the Resurrection Man. "But of that no matter. All I required was
      Katherine Wilmot's address; and you have discovered it. Now for my last question. Have you
      ascertained whether it will be possible to bribe the clerk of the church where Lord
      Ravensworth and the Honourable Miss Adeline Enfield were married, to tear out the leaf of the
      register which contains the entry of that union?"  
  "I have learnt that the clerk is open to bribery: but he is a cautious man, and will not
      allow himself to be sounded too deeply in the matter," was the answer.  
  "Then that business must regard me," observed the Resurrection Man. "You have served me well
      in all these matters. Twenty pounds I gave you the other day: here are twenty pounds more. Are
      you satisfied?"  
  "I have every reason to be pleased with your liberality," returned the Bully Grand, folding
      up the bank-notes with his delicate fingers. "Have you any further commands at present?"  
  "Yes," replied the Resurrection Man, after a few moments' consideration: "let one of your
      lads take a couple of notes for me."  
  While the Bully Grand proceeded to summon Leary Lipkins, the Resurrection Man seated himself
      at a desk which there was in the room, and wrote the following note:—  
  "The news I have just received are rather good than bad. The clerk is open to bribery, but
      is cautious. I will myself call upon him the day after to-morrow; and I will meet you
      afterwards, at our usual place of appointment, in the evening between six and seven. But you
      must find money somehow or another: I am incurring expenses in this matter, and cannot work
      for nothing. Surely Greenwood will assist you?"  
  This letter was sealed and addressed to "  Gilbert Vernon, Esq.  ,   No.—Stamford
       Street  ."  
  The Resurrection Man then penned another note which ran thus:—  
  "I have discovered Katherine's address, and shall call upon you the day after to-morrow at
      nine o'clock in the evening. Remain at home; as you know the importance of the business."  
  By the time he had concluded his correspondence, the Bully Grand had returned with Leary
      Lipkins.  
  "My good lad," said the Resurrection Man, addressing the latter, "here are two notes, which
      you must deliver this night—  this night, mind  . The first is addressed; and the person
      for whom it is intended never retires to bed until very late. He will be up, when you call at
      the house where he lodges in Stamford Street. Give the letter into his own hand. You must then
      proceed to Golden Lane; and in the third court on the right-hand side of the way, and in the
      fourth house on the left-hand in that court, an old woman lives. You must knock till she
      answers you; and give her this second letter. I actually do not know her name, although I have
      dealings with her at present."  
  Leary Lipkins promised to fulfil these directions, and immediately departed to execute
      them.  
  Shortly afterwards the Resurrection Man took his leave of the Bully Grand, and left the
      head-quarters of the Forty Thieves.  
  Henry Holford, who had never lost sight of the door of that house since he had seen the
      Resurrection Man enter it, and who had remained concealed in the shade of an overhanging
      frontage opposite for more than two hours, resumed his task of dogging that formidable
      individual.  
  The Resurrection Man passed down Mint Street, into the Borough, and called a cab from the
      nearest stand, saying to the driver, "New Church, Bethnal Green."  
  The moment Tidkins was ensconced within, and the driver was seated on his box, Henry Holford
      crept softly behind the cab. In that manner he rode unmolested until within a short distance
      of the place of destination, when he descended, and followed the vehicle on foot.  
  The cab stopped near the railings that surround the church; and the Resurrection Man, having
      settled the fare, hurried onwards into Globe Town, Holford still dogging him—but with the
      utmost caution.  
  Presently Tidkins struck into a bye-street at the eastern extremity of the Happy Valley (as,
      our readers will remember, Globe Town is denominated in the gazetteer of metropolitan
      thieves), and stopped at the door of a house of dilapidated appearance. In a word, this was
      the very den where we have before seen him conducting his infamous plots, and in the
      subterranean vaults of which Viola Chichester was imprisoned for a period of three weeks.  
  Holford saw the Resurrection Man enter this house by the front door communicating with the
      street. He watched the windows for a few moments, and then perceived a light suddenly appear
      in the room on the upper floor.  
  "I have succeeded!" exclaimed Holford, aloud, "the villain lives there! I have traced him to
      his lurking-hole; and Jem may yet be avenged!"  
  Then, in order to be enabled to give an accurate description of the house to the returned
      convict, Holford studied its situation and appearance with careful attention. He observed that
      it was two storeys high, and that by the side was a dark alley.  
  At length he was convinced that he should be enabled to find that particular dwelling again,
      or to direct Crankey Jem to it without the possibility of error; and, rejoicing at being thus
      enabled to oblige his new friend, the young man commenced his long and weary walk back to
      Drury Lane.  
  
  CHAPTER CXCIII.   ANOTHER VISIT TO BUCKINGHAM PALACE.  
  It was the evening following the one the incidents of which occupied the preceding
      chapter.  
  Beneath a sofa in the Ball Room of Buckingham Palace, Henry Holford lay concealed.  
  It would be a mere repetition of statements made in former portions of this work, were we to
      describe the means by which the young man obtained access to the most private parts of the
      royal dwelling. We may, however, observe that he had paid frequent visits to the palace since
      the occasion when we first saw him enter those sacred precincts at the commencement of
      January, 1839; and that he was as familiar with the interior of the sovereign's abode, even to
      its most retired chambers, as any of its numerous inmates.  
  He had run many risks of discovery; but a species of good fortune seemed to attend upon him
      in these strange and romantic ventures; and those frequent alarms had never as yet terminated
      in his detection. Thus he became emboldened in his intrusions; and he now lay beneath the sofa
      in the Ball Room, with no more apprehension than he would have entertained if some authority
      in the palace had actually connived at his presence there.  
  It was nine o'clock in the evening; and the Ball Room was brilliantly illuminated.  
  But as yet the low-born pot-boy was its sole occupant.  
  Not long, however, was he doomed to that solitude. By a strange coincidence, the two noble
      ladies whose conversation had so much interested him on the occasion of his first visit to the
      palace, entered the room shortly after nine o'clock. He recognised their voices immediately;
      and he was delighted at their arrival, for their former dialogues had awakened the most lively
      sentiments of curiosity in his mind. But since his intrusion in January, 1839, he had never
      seen nor heard them in his subsequent visits to the royal dwelling, until the present
      occasion; and now, as they advanced through the room together, he held his breath to catch the
      words that fell from them.  
  "The dinner-party was tiresome to-day, my dear countess," observed the duchess: "her Majesty
      did not appear to be in good spirits."  
  "Alas!" exclaimed the lady thus addressed, "our gracious sovereign's melancholy fits occur
      at less distant intervals as she grows older."  
  "And yet her Majesty has every earthly reason to be happy," said the duchess. "The Prince
      appears to be devotedly attached to her; and the Princess Royal is a sweet babe."  
  "Worldly prosperity will not always ensure felicity," returned the countess; "and this your
      grace must have perceived amongst the circle of your acquaintance. Her Majesty is a prey to
      frequent fits of despondency, which are distressing to the faithful subjects who have the
      honour to be near the royal person. She will sit for an hour at a time, in moody contemplation
      of that sweet babe; and her countenance then wears an expression of such profound—such
      plaintive—such touching melancholy, that I have frequently wept to behold her thus."  
  "What can be the cause of this intermittent despondency?" inquired the duchess.  
  "It is constitutional," answered the countess. "The fit comes upon her Majesty at moments
      when she is surrounded by all the elements of pleasure, happiness, and joy. It is a dark
      spirit against which no mind, however powerful, can wrestle. The only method of mitigating the
      violence of its attacks is the bustle of travelling:—then novelty, change of scene, exercise,
      and the demonstrations of popular devotion seem to relieve our beloved sovereign from the
      influence of that morbid, moody melancholy."  
  "I believe that when we conversed upon this topic on a former occasion,—it must be at least
      two years ago,—your ladyship hinted at the existence of hereditary idiosyncrasies in the Royal
      Family?" observed the duchess, inquiringly. "Indeed," added her grace, hastily, "I well
      remember that you alluded to the unfortunate attachment of George the Third for a certain
      Quakeress——"  
  "Yes—Hannah Lightfoot, to whom the monarch, when a prince, was privately united," answered
      the countess. "His baffled love—the necessity which compelled him to renounce one to whom he
      was devotedly attached—and the constant dread which he entertained lest the secret of this
      marriage should transpire, acted upon his mind in a manner that subsequently produced those
      dread results which are matters of history."  
  "You allude to his madness," said the duchess, with a shudder.  
  "Yes, your grace—that madness which is, alas! hereditary," replied the countess solemnly.
      "But George the Third had many—many domestic afflictions. Oh! if you knew all, you would not
      be surprised that he had lost his reason! The profligacy of some of his children—most of
      them—was alone sufficient to turn his brain. Many of those instances of profligacy have
      transpired; and although the public have not been able to arrive at any positive proofs
      respecting the matters, I can nevertheless assure your grace that such proofs   are   in
      existence—and in my possession!"  
  "Your ladyship once before hinted as much to me; and I must confess that without having any
      morbid inclination for vulgar scandal, I feel some curiosity in respect to those matters."  
  "Some day I will place in your hand papers of a fearful import, in connexion with the Royal
      Family," returned the countess. "Your grace will then perceive that profligacy the most
      abandoned—crimes the most heinous—vices the most depraved, characterised nearly all the
      children of George the Third. There is one remarkable fact relative to that prince's marriage
      with Hannah Lightfoot. The Royal Marriage Act was not passed until   thirteen years after
       this union  , and could not therefore set it aside; and yet   Hannah Lightfoot was still
       living when the prince espoused Charlotte Sophia Princess of Mecklenburgh Strelitz in
       1761  ."  
  "Is this possible?" exclaimed the duchess, profoundly surprised.  
  "It is possible—it is true!" said the countess emphatically. "In 1772 the Royal Marriage
       Act  target="#ENG18460_N125" [25]  Duke of Cumberland with Mrs. Horton, a widow—and the Duke of Gloucester with the
      widow of the Earl of Waldegrave."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "The act certainly appears to me most cruel and oppressive," said the duchess; "inasmuch as
      it interferes with the tenderest affections and most charming of human sympathies—feelings
      which royalty has in common with all the rest of mankind."  
  "I cordially agree with your grace," observed the countess. "The law is
      barbarous—monstrous—revolting; and its evil effects were evidenced by almost every member of
      the family of George the Third. In the first place, the Prince of Wales (afterwards George the
      Fourth) was privately united to Mrs. Fitzherbert, at the house of that lady's uncle, Lord
      Sefton. Fox, Sheridan, and Burke were present at the ceremony, in addition to my mother and
      several relations of the bride. Mr. Fox handed her into the carriage; and the happy pair
      proceeded to Richmond, where they passed a week or ten days. Queen Charlotte was made
      acquainted with the marriage: she sent for her son, and demanded an explanation. The prince
      avowed the truth. Your grace has, of course, read the discussion which took place in connexion
      with this subject, in the House of Commons, in 1787. Mr. Rolle, the member for Devonshire,
      mysteriously alluded to the union: Mr. Fox rose up, and denied it; but from that day forth
      Mrs. Fitzherbert never spoke to Fox again. Sheridan let the truth escape him:—he said, '  A
       lady who has been alluded to, is without reproach, and is entitled to the truest and most
       general respect  .' How would Mrs. Fitzherbert have been without reproach, or entitled to
      respect, if she were   not   married to the prince? But I have proofs—convincing
      proofs—that such an union did actually take place, although it was certainly null and void in
      consequence of the Marriage Act."  
  "It nevertheless subsisted according to the feelings and inclinations of the parties
      interested," said the duchess; "and it was based on   honour  , if on no legal
      principle."  
  "Alas!" whispered the countess, casting a rapid glance around; "the word   honour  our lovely queen: but—if we converse on the subject at all—truth must influence
      our observations. The entire life of George the Fourth was one of profligacy and crime. Often
      have I marvelled how one possessing a soul so refined as Georgiana, the beautiful Duchess of
      Devonshire, could have resigned herself to such a degraded voluptuary—such a low debauchee.
      Yet she was his Queen of Love, surrounded by her graces, who, however, bore the modern names
      of Craven, Windham, and Jersey."  
  "Carlton House has, indeed, beheld strange and varied scenes," said the duchess; "low orgies
      and voluptuous revels—music floating here—dice rattling there—the refinements of existence in
      one room, and the most degraded dissipation in another."  
  "Such was the case," observed the countess. "But let us return to the consequences of the
      Royal Marriage Act. Rumour has told much in connexion with the coupled names of the Duke of
      York and Mrs. Clarke—the late King William and Mrs. Jordan; and so well known are these facts
      that I need not dwell upon them. The matrimonial connexions of the Duke of Sussex—first with
      Lady Augusta Murray, and afterwards with Lady Cecilia Underwood,  target="#ENG18460_N126" [26]   are all matters resting upon something more solid than mere conjecture."  
  "And the Duke of Cumberland—the present King of Hanover?" said the duchess inquiringly.  
  "It is dangerous to speak of   him  ," whispered the countess; "because it is
      impossible to utter a word in his favour."  
  "You surely cannot believe all the tales that have been circulated against him?" exclaimed
      the duchess, earnestly watching the countenance of her companion, as if to anticipate her
      reply.  
  "Does your grace particularly allude to the death of Sellis?" asked the countess, turning
      her head so as to meet the glance of her friend. "Because," continued she, without waiting for
      a reply, "I should be sorry—nay, nothing should induce me—to state in plain terms my
      impression relative to that event. I may, however, allude to a few material points. Sir
      Everard Home, the medical attendant of the Duke of Cumberland, frequently observed, '  that
       too much pains were taken to involve that affair in mystery  ;' and another eminent
      physician, since dead, declared that '  the head of Sellis was nearly severed from his body,
       and that no man could inflict upon himself a wound of such a depth  .' The Duke of
      Cumberland stated that his valet, Sellis, entered his bed-chamber and attacked him with a
      sword; and that having failed in his murderous purposes, he retired to his own room and
      committed suicide. Sir Everard Home distinctly proved, on the inquest, that the corpse was
      found lying on its   side   on the bed; and yet '  he had cut his own throat so
       effectually that he could not have changed his position after inflicting the wound  .' I
      will not, however, make any observations upon   that   fact and   this   statement
      which seem so conflicting: the subject is almost too awful to deal with. There is still one
      remarkable point to which the attention of those who discuss the dark affair should be
      directed:—the hand-basin in Sellis's room was half full of blood-stained water, and it is very
      clear that the miserable wretch himself could not have risen to wash his hands   after  
      the wound was inflicted in his throat. But let us not dwell on this horrible event: the mere
      mention of it makes me shudder."  
  "The King of Hanover has been, at least, unfortunate in many circumstances of his life, if
      not guilty," observed the duchess; "because his enemies have insisted strongly upon the
      suspicious nature of the incident of which we have been speaking."  
  "The more so, because it was known that the Duke of Cumberland had intrigued with the wife
      of Sellis," returned the countess. "As your grace declares, that exalted personage has been
      indeed unfortunate—if nothing more. In 1830 Lord Graves committed suicide; and the improper
      connexion existing between the Duke of Cumberland and Lady Graves was notorious."  
  "I well remember," said the duchess, "that the conduct of the Duke and Lady Graves was far
      from prudent, to say the least of it, after that melancholy event. Scarcely were the remains
      of the self-slain nobleman cold in the tomb, ere his widow and her illustrious lover were seen
      driving about together in the neighbourhood of Hampton Court, where Lady Graves had
      apartments."  
  "True," exclaimed the duchess. "But we have travelled a long way from our first topic—the
      Royal Marriage Act. We were speaking of its pernicious effects in respect to the family of
      George the Third. And that was a fine family, too! My deceased mother often expatiated—and her
      secret papers dwell at length—upon the charms of the princesses. Alas! how sorrowfully were
      they situated! In the bloom of youth—in the glow of health—with warm temperaments and ardent
      imaginations, which received encouragement from the voluptuous indolence of their lives—they
      were denied the privileges of the meanest peasant girl in the realm:—they were unable to form
      matrimonial connexions where their inclinations prompted them. The consequences were those
      which might have been anticipated: the honour of the princesses became sacrificed to illicit
      passion—passion which was still natural, although illicit! Those amours were productive of
      issue; but the offspring of none has created any sensation in the world, save in the instance
      of Captain Garth, the son of the Princess Sophia. Relative to the mysterious birth of that
      individual, the secret papers left by my mother—and the existence of which is even unknown to
      my husband—contain some strange, some startling facts. Conceive the embarrassment—the perilous
      nature of the situation in which the princess was suddenly involved—when, during a journey
      from London to some fashionable watering-place, she found herself overtaken with the pangs of
      premature maternity—she, who up to that moment had managed to conceal her condition even from
      the attendants upon her person! Then imagine this princess—a daughter of the sovereign of the
      realm—compelled to put up at a miserable road-side inn—forced to make a confidant of her lady
      in attendance, and obliged also to entrust her secret to the surgeon of the village where her
      child was born! But you shall read the narrative, with all its details, in my private
      papers."  
  "What opinion has your ladyship formed relative to the circumstances which led to the Bill
      of Pains and Penalties instituted against Queen Caroline, the spouse of George the Fourth?"
      inquired the duchess.  
  "I firmly believe that most unfortunate and most persecuted princess to have been
         completely innocent  When the Earl of Malmsbury, who was sent to Germany to escort the Princess to
      England, arrived with her in London, the Prince of Wales repaired instantly to pay his
      respects to his intended bride. But scarcely had he set eyes on her when he conceived a
      feeling of ineffable dislike; and, turning towards the Earl, he said, 'Harris,  target="#ENG18460_N127" [27]   a glass of brandy—I am ill!' Your grace has heard of love
      at first sight: here was hatred at first sight. Every thing attending that marriage was
      inauspicious: for if the Princess had the misfortune to make an unfavourable impression on the
      Prince, his Royal Highness wantonly wounded her feelings by grossly manifesting his dislike
      towards her on all occasions. On the bridal night he drank so deeply that he fell on a sofa in
      the nuptial chamber, and there slept with his clothes on. But to pass over many years, let us
      come to the circumstances which led to the memorable trial of Queen Caroline. During her
      continental travels, Baron Bergami was presented to her. He was a man of honourable character,
      good family, but ruined fortunes. His condition excited the compassion of the generous-hearted
      Caroline; and she gave him a situation in her household. His conversation was fascinating; and
      he was frequently her companion inside the travelling chariot. Perhaps an English lady would
      have acted with more prudence; but your grace will remember that there is a wide distinction
      between our manners and customs and those of the Continent.   We   see improprieties in
      actions which foreigners view as harmless courtesies or innocent proofs of friendly interest.
         We   also seem ready to meet suspicions of evil half-way: foreigners, with more
      generous frankness and candour, say, '  Evil be to him who evil thinks  .' But the
      marriage was hateful to King George the Fourth; and he was determined to dissolve it. He was
      resolved to sacrifice his wife to his aversions. She was to be made a victim. Then commenced
      that atrocious subornation of perjured witnesses which gave a colour to the proceedings
      against the unfortunate Queen. Her slightest levities were tortured into proofs of guilt: her
      generosity towards Bergami was branded as an illicit passion. The witnesses made statements
      which proved how well they had been tutored: they over-acted their parts; and, in their zeal
      to serve a master who paid them for their perjury, they deposed to more than they could
      possibly have known, even if the main accusation had been true. The nation was indignant—for
         the people  , your grace, are possessed of much chivalry and noble generosity of
      character. Then, too, rose the portentous voices of Denman and Brougham, calling upon the
      hidden accuser to come forth and confront his victim. Oh! it was a vile proceeding; and I, as
      a woman—as a wife, feel my blood boiling in my veins when I think of all the foul wrongs which
      were heaped upon the most injured of my sex!"  
  "That trial," said the duchess, who was naturally of a more cautious disposition than her
      companion,—"that trial was certainly a dark blot on the page which records the annals of
      George the Fourth's reign."  
  "Say rather, your grace," exclaimed the countess, "the blackest of the innumerable black
      deeds which characterised his existence. Before the accusation in respect to Bergami was ever
      thought of, a charge was concocted against that injured lady, and commissioners were appointed
      to investigate it. Thus, your grace perceives, her bad husband was determined to ruin her.
      That charge accused her of having been delivered of a male child at her abode at Blackheath;
      and the affair certainly appeared suspicious at first. But how triumphantly was it met? how
      readily was it refuted? how easily was it explained! The injured lady had taken a fancy to the
      infant of poor but respectable people named Archer, living in that neighbourhood; and she had
      undertaken to adopt and provide for the boy. The unfortunate Princess felt the necessity of
      loving something—since her own child was taken from her. Thus was her goodness towards William
      Archer converted into a weapon wherewithal to assail her in the most tender point. Her
      husband's agents circulated the most odious calumnies concerning her, and even improperly
      coupled her name with that of Sir Sydney Smith, the hero of Acre. But the Archer story fell to
      the ground; and the Bergami scandal was subsequently propagated with a zeal which evinced the
      determination of George the Fourth to ruin Caroline of Brunswick."  target="#ENG18460_N128" [28]    
  There was a pause in the conversation.  
  The duchess, who was possessed of a strong inclination for the mysterious or scandalous
      narratives connected with the family of George the Third, was so impressed by the vehemence
      and confident emphasis with which her companion had denounced the profligacy of George the
      Fourth, that a species of awe—an undefined alarm came over her:—it suddenly appeared as if it
      were a sacrilege thus to canvass the character of that deceased monarch within the very palace
      where he himself had dwelt;—and she hesitated to make any remark or ask any question that
      might lead to a continuation of the same topic.  
  mysteries of Courts—had become plunged into a deep reverie; for she possessed a
      generous mind, and never could ponder upon the wrongs of the murdered Queen Caroline without
      experiencing the most profound indignation and sorrow.  target="#ENG18460_N129" [29]    
  The reader may probably deem it somewhat extraordinary that ladies attached to the Court
      should thus freely discuss the most private affairs, and canvass the characters of deceased
      members of the Royal Family. But we can positively assert that nowhere are scandal and
      tittle-tattle more extensively indulged in, than amongst the members of that circle of
      courtiers and female sycophants who crowd about the sovereign.  target="#ENG18460_N130" [30]    
  The conversation of the duchess and countess was not renewed on the present occasion; for
      while they were yet plunged each in the depths of her own particular meditations, the regal
      train entered the Ball Room.  
  And all this while Henry Holford remained concealed beneath the sofa!  
  Victoria leant upon the arm of her consort; and the illustrious party was preceded by the
      Lord Chamberlain and the Lord Steward. The Queen and the Prince proceeded to the reserved
      seats which were slightly elevated in a recess, and were covered with white satin embroidered
      in silver.  
  Then the magnificent Ball-Room presented a truly fairy spectacle. Plumes were waving,
      diamonds were sparkling, bright eyes were glancing, and music floated on the air. The spacious
      apartment was crowded with nobles and gentlemen in gorgeous uniforms or court-dresses; and
      with ladies in the most elegant attire that French fashions could suggest or French milliners
      achieve. All those striking or attractive figures, and all the splendours of their appearance,
      were multiplied by the brilliant mirrors to an illimitable extent.  
  The orchestra extended across one end of the Ball-Room; and the musicians had entered by a
      side-door almost at the same moment that the royal procession made its appearance.  
  In the rooms adjoining, the Corps of Gentlemen-at-arms and the Yeomen of the Guard were on
      duty; and in the hall the band of the Royal Regiment of Horse Guards was in attendance.  
  The Queen and the Prince danced in the first quadrille; and afterwards they indulged in
      their favourite waltz—the   Frohsinn mein Ziel  . At the termination of each
      dance the royal party passed into the Picture Gallery, where they promenaded amidst a
      wilderness of flowers and aromatic shrubs. Then indeed the odour-breathing exotics—the
      whispering leaves—the light of the pendent lamps, mellowed so as to give full effect to the
      portraits of those who were once famous or once beautiful—the ribboned or gartered nobles—the
      blaze of female loveliness—the streams of melody—the presence of all possible elements of
      splendour, harmony, and pleasure, combined to render the whole scene one of enchantment, and
      seemed to realize the most glowing and brilliant visions which oriental writers ever shadowed
      forth!  
  The dancing was renewed in the Ball-Room: and as the beauteous ladies of the court swam and
      turned in graceful mazes, it appeared as if the art had become elevated into the harmony of
      motion. Dancing there was something more than mechanical: it was a true, a worthy, and a
      legitimate sister of poetry and music.  
  At twelve o'clock the doors of the supper-room were thrown open; and in that gorgeous
      banqueting-hall the crimson draperies, the service of gold, and the massive table ornaments
      were lighted up by Chinese lanterns and silver candelabra of exquisite workmanship. A splendid
      row of gold cups was laid on each side of the table. On the right of each plate stood a
      decanter of water, a finger-glass half filled with tepid water, a champagne glass, a tumbler,
      and three wine-glasses. Numerous servants in magnificent liveries were in attendance. No one
      asked for any thing: the servants offered the various dishes, of which the guests partook or
      which they rejected according to their taste. No healths were drunk during the Queen's
      presence; nor was the ceremony of taking wine with each other observed—not even on the part of
      the gentleman with the lady whom he had handed into the room. The domestics whose especial
      duty it was to serve the wine, never filled a glass until it was quite empty; nor did any
      guest ask for wine, but, when the servant approached him, merely stated the kind of wine he
      chose.  
  Prince Albert, the guests all rising as the royal couple retired.  
  Then the servants filled the glasses, and the Lord Steward said, "The Queen!" The health was
      drunk standing, in silence, and with a gentle inclination of the head. In a few minutes
      afterwards the gentlemen conducted the ladies into the Yellow Drawing-Room, where coffee and
      liqueurs were served.  
  The harp, piano, and songs by some of the ladies, occupied another hour; at the expiration
      of which the guests took their departure.  
  Holford had now been concealed nearly five hours beneath the sofa in the ball-room; and he
      was cramped, stiff, and wearied. During that interval he had experienced a variety of
      emotions:—wonder at the strange revelations which he had heard from the lips of the
      countess,—ineffable delight in contemplating the person of his sovereign,—envy at the exalted
      prosperity of Prince Albert,—thrilling excitement at the fairy-like aspect of the enchanting
      dance,—sensations of unknown rapture occasioned by the soft strains of the music,—and
      boundless disgust for his own humble, obscure, and almost serf-like condition.  
  During those intervals when the royal party and the guests were promenading in the
      Picture-Gallery or were engaged in the supper-apartment and the drawing-room, Holford longed
      to escape from his hiding-place and retreat to the lumber-closet where he was in the habit of
      concealing himself on the occasion of his visits to the palace; but there were too many
      persons about to render such a step safe.  
  It was not, therefore, until a very late hour,—or rather an early one in the morning,—that
      he was able to enter the supper-room and help himself to some of the dainties left upon the
      board; having done which, he retreated to his nook in the most retired part of the palace.  
  
  CHAPTER CXCIV.   THE ROYAL BREAKFAST.  
  Holford did not immediately close his eyes in slumber.  
  Although his education had been miserably neglected, he possessed good natural abilities;
      and his reflections at times were of a far more philosophical nature than could have been
      anticipated.  
  The gorgeous scenes which he had just witnessed now led him to meditate upon the horrible
      contrasts which existed elsewhere, not only in the great metropolis, but throughout the United
      Kingdom,—and many, very many of which he himself had seen with his own eyes, and felt with his
      own experience.  
  At that moment when festivity was highest, and pleasure was most exciting in the regal
      halls, there were mothers in naked attics, dark cellars, or even houseless in the open
      streets,—mothers who pressed their famished little ones to their bosoms, and wondered whether
      a mouthful of food would ever pass their lips again.  
  While the royal table groaned beneath the weight of golden vessels and the choicest luxuries
      which earth's fruitfulness, heaven's bounty, or man's ingenuity could supply,—while the
      raciest produce of fertile vineyards sparkled in the crystal cups,—at that same period, how
      many thousands of that exalted lady's subjects moistened their sorry crust with tears wrung
      from them by the consciousness of ill-requited toil and the pinching gripe of bitter
      poverty!  
  Delicious music here, and the cries of starving children there;—silver candelabra pouring
      forth a flood of lustre in a gorgeous saloon, and a flickering rushlight making visible the
      naked and damp-stained walls of a wretched garret;—silks and satins, rags and
      nudity;—luxurious and pampered indolence; crushing and ill-paid labour;—homage and reverence,
      ill-treatment and oppression;—the gratification of every whim, the absence of every
      necessary;—not a care for to-morrow here, not a hope for to-morrow there;—a certainty of a
      renewal of this day's plenty, a total ignorance whence the next day's bread can come;—mirth
      and laughter, moans and sorrowing;—a palace for life on one hand, and an anxiety lest even the
      wretched hovel may not be changed for a workhouse to-morrow;—these are the appalling contrasts
      which our social sphere presents to view!  
  Of all this Holford thought as he lay concealed in the lumber-room of the royal
      dwelling.  
  But at length sleep overtook him.  
  It was still dark when he awoke. At first he thought that he must have slumbered for many
      hours—that a day had passed, and that another night had come;—but he felt too little refreshed
      to remain many instants in that opinion. Moreover, as he watched the window, he observed a
      faint, faint gleam of light—or rather a mitigation of the intenseness of the gloom
      without—slowly appearing; and he knew that the dawn was at hand.  
  He was nearly frozen in that cheerless room where he had slept: his teeth chattered—his
      limbs were benumbed. He longed for some new excitement to elevate his drooping spirits, and
      thus impart physical warmth to his frame.  
  Suddenly a thought struck him: he would penetrate into the royal breakfast-room! He knew
      that the Queen and Prince Albert frequently partook of the morning meal together; and he
      longed to listen to their conversation when thus   tête-a-tête  .  
  Scarcely had he conceived this project when he resolved to execute it. The interior of the
      palace—even to its most private apartments and chambers—was as we have before stated,
      perfectly familiar to him. Stealing from the place where he had slept, he proceeded with
      marvellous caution to the point of his present destination; and in about ten minutes he
      reached the breakfast-room in safety.  
  The twilight of morning had now penetrated through the windows of this apartment; for the
      heavy curtains were drawn aside, a cheerful fire burnt in the grate, and the table was already
      spread.  
  A friendly sofa became Holford's hiding-place.  
  Shortly after eight o'clock a domestic entered with the morning Ministerial paper, which he
      laid upon the table, and then withdrew.  
  Five minutes elapsed, when the door was thrown open, and the Queen entered, attended by two
      ladies. These were almost immediately dismissed; and Victoria seated herself near the fire, to
      read the journal. But scarcely had she opened it, ere Prince Albert made his appearance,
      followed by a gentleman in waiting, who humbly saluted her Majesty and retired.  
  placed upon the table the materials for a sumptuous breakfast, having performed
      which duty they immediately left the room.  
  The Queen and her consort were now alone—or at least, supposed themselves to be so; and
      their conversation soon flowed without restraint.  
  But such an empire—such a despotism does the habitual etiquette of Courts establish over the
      natural freedom of the human mind, that even the best and most tender feelings of the heart
      are to a certain extent subdued and oppressed by that chilling influence. The royal pair were
      affectionate to each other: still their tenderness was not of that lively, unembarrassed,
      free, and cordial nature which subsists at the domestic hearth elsewhere. There seemed to be a
      barrier between the frank and open interchange of their thoughts; and even though that barrier
      were no thicker than gauze, still it existed. Their words were to some degree
      measured—scarcely perceptibly so, it is true—nevertheless, the fact   was   apparent in
      the least, least degree; and the effect was also in the least, least degree unpleasant.  
  The Queen was authoritative in the enunciation of her opinion upon any subject; and if the
      Prince differed from her, he expressed himself with restraint. In fact, he did not feel
      himself his wife's equal. Could a listener, who did not see them as they spoke, have deadened
      his ear to those intonations of their voices which marked their respective sex, and have
      judged only by their words, he would have thought that the Queen was the   husband  , and
      the Prince the   wife  .  
  The Prince appeared to be very amiable, very intelligent; but totally inexperienced in the
      ways of the world. The Queen exhibited much natural ability and an elegant taste:
      nevertheless, she also seemed lamentably ignorant of the every-day incidents of life. We mean
      that the royal pair manifested a reluctance to believe in those melancholy occurrences which
      characterize the condition of the industrious millions. This was not the result of
      indifference, but of sheer ignorance. Indeed, it would necessarily seem difficult for those
      who were so surrounded by every luxury, to conceive that such a fearful contrast as literal
      starvation could possibly exist.  
  But let us hear that illustrious pair converse: their language will to some extent serve as
      an index to their minds.  
  "Melbourne informed me last evening," said the Queen, "that he trembles for the safety of
      his Cabinet during the approaching session. The Carlton Club is particularly active; and the
      Conservative party has acquired great strength during the recess."  
  "What would be the consequence of a Ministerial defeat?" inquired Prince Albert.  
  "A dissolution, of course," answered the Queen. "I must candidly confess that I should
      regret to see the Conservative party succeed to power. All the principal lords and ladies of
      our household would be immediately changed. The Whigs, however, have certainly grown
      unpopular; and there appears to be some distress in the country. The very first article on
      which my eyes rested when I took up this newspaper ere now, is headed '  Dreadful Suicide
       through Extreme Destitution  .' Beneath, in the same column, is an article entitled
       '  Infanticide, and Suicide of the Murderess, through Literal Starvation  .' The next
      column contains a long narrative which I have not had time to read, but which is headed
       '  Suicide through Dread of the Workhouse  .' On this page," continued the Queen,
      turning the paper upon the table, "there is an article entitled '  Death from
       Starvation  ;' another headed '  Dreadful Condition of the Spitalfields' Weavers  ;'
      a third called '  Starving State of the Paisley Mechanics  ;' a fourth entitled
       '  Awful Distress in the Manufacturing Districts  ;' and I perceive numerous short
      paragraphs all announcing similar calamities."  
  "The English papers are always full of such accounts," observed the Prince.  
  "And yet I would have you know that England is the richest, most prosperous, and happiest
      country on the face of the earth," returned the Queen, somewhat impatiently. "You must not
      take these accounts literally as you read them. My Ministers assure me that they are greatly
      exaggerated. It appears—as the matter has been explained to me—that the persons who furnish
      these narratives are remunerated according to quantity; and they therefore amplify the details
      as much as possible."  
  "Still those accounts must be, to a certain extent, based on truth?" said Prince Albert,
      half inquiringly.  
  "Not nearly so much as you imagine. My Ministers have satisfied me on that head; and they
      must know better than you. Take, for instance, the article headed '  Dreadful Condition of
       the Spitalfields' Weavers  .' You may there read that the weavers are in an actual state
      of starvation. This is only newspaper metaphor: the writer means his readers to understand
      that the weavers are not so well off as they would wish to be. Perhaps they have not meat
      every day—perhaps only three or four times a week: but they assuredly have plenty of bread and
      potatoes—because bread and potatoes are so cheap!"  
  "I thought that you intended to discountenance the importation of foreign silks, by ordering
      all the ladies of the Court to wear dresses of English material?" observed Prince Albert,
      after a pause.  
  "Such was my intention," answered the Queen; "but the ladies about me dropped so many hints
      on the subject, that I was compelled to rescind the command. I must confess that I was not
      sorry to find an excuse for so doing; for I greatly prefer French silks and French
      dressmakers. But let me make an observation upon this article which is headed '  Suicide
       through Dread of the Workhouse  .' I spoke to the Secretary of State a few days ago upon
      the subject of workhouses; and he assured me that they are very comfortable places. He
      declared that the people do not know when they are well off, and that they require to be
      managed like refractory children. He quite convinced me that all he said was perfectly
      correct; and I really begin to think that the people are very obstinate, dissatisfied, and
      insolent."  
  "They are most enthusiastic in their demonstrations towards their sovereign," remarked the
      Prince.  
  "And naturally so," exclaimed Victoria. "Am I not their Queen? are they not my subjects? do
      I not rule over them? All the happiness, prosperity, and enjoyments which they possess emanate
      from the throne. They would be very ungrateful if they did not reverence—nay, adore their
      sovereign."  
  "Oh, of course!" said Prince Albert. "In Germany, any individual who exhibits the least
      coldness towards his sovereign is immediately marked as a traitor."  
  a list of disaffected persons," observed the Queen; "but, thank God! their number
      is very limited—at least, so I am assured. My Ministers are constantly informing me of the
      proofs of loyalty and devotion which the people manifest towards me. If this were a Roman
      Catholic nation, they would no doubt place my image next to the Virgin in their chapels; and
      if it were an idolatrous country, my effigy would assuredly stand amongst the gods and
      goddesses. It is very pleasant, Albert, to be so much loved by my subjects—to be positively
      worshipped by them."  
  The Prince replied with a compliment which it is not worth while to record.  
  The Queen smiled, and continued:—  
  "You remember the paragraph which the Secretary of State pointed out a few days ago: it was
      in the   Morning Post  , if you recollect. That journal—which, by the bye,
      circulates entirely amongst the upper servants of the aristocracy, and nowhere else—declared
       '  that so great is the devotion of my loyal, subjects that, were such a sacrifice
       necessary, they would joyfully throw themselves beneath the wheels of my state-carriage, even
       as the Indians cast themselves under the car of Juggernaut  .'  target="#ENG18460_N131" [31]   I never in my life saw but that one number of the   Post  : its
      circulation, I am told, is confined entirely to the servants of the aristocracy; still it
      seems in that instance to express the sentiments of the entire nation. You smile, Albert?"  
  "I was only thinking whether the paragraph to which you have alluded, was another specimen
      of newspaper metaphor," answered the Prince, with some degree of hesitation.  
  "Not at all," returned the Queen, quickly; "the Editor wrote precisely as he thought. He
      must know the real sentiments of the people, since he is a man of the people himself. I have
      been assured that he was once the head-butler in a nobleman's family: hence his success in
      conducting a daily newspaper exclusively devoted to the interests and capacities of
      upper-servants."  
  "I thought that English Editors were generally a better class of men?" observed the
      Prince.  
  "So they are for the most part," replied the Queen: "graduates at the
      Universities—barristers—and highly accomplished gentlemen. But in the case of the
         Morning Post   there seems to be an exception. We were, however, conversing upon
      the distress in the country—for there certainly is some little distress here and there;
      although the idea of people actually dying of starvation in a Christian land is of course
      absurd. I am really bewildered, at times, with the reasons of, and the remedies proposed for,
      that distress. If I ask the Home Secretary, he declares that the people are too obstinate to
      understand what comfortable places the workhouses are;—if I ask the Colonial Secretary, he
      assures me that the people are most wilfully blind to the blessings of emigration: if I ask
      the Foreign Secretary, he labours to convince me that the distracted state of the East reacts
      upon this country; and if I ask the Bishop of London he expresses his conviction that the
      people require more churches."  
  "For my part, I do not like to interfere in these matters," said the Prince; "and therefore
      I never ask any questions concerning them."  
  "And you act rightly, Albert, for you certainly know nothing of English politics. I observe
      by the newspapers that the country praises your forbearance in this respect. You are a
      Field-Marshal, and Chief Judge of the Stannaries Court—and——"  
  "And a Knight of the Garter," added the Prince.  
  "Yes—and a Learned Doctor of Laws," continued the Queen: "any thing else?"  
  "Several things—but I really forget them all now," returned the Prince.  
  "Never mind," exclaimed the Queen. "I intend to obtain for you higher distinctions yet. I do
      not like the mere title of   Prince  , and the style of   Royal Highness  : you
      shall be   King-Consort   and   Your Majesty  . Then, when a vacancy occurs, you
      must be appointed Commander-in-Chief."  
  "I feel deeply grateful for your kind intentions," returned the Prince, with a smile; "but
      you are well aware that I am totally ignorant of every thing connected with the army."  
  "That is of no consequence in England," replied the Queen. "You will have subordinates to do
      your duty. I must speak to Melbourne about all this. And now, as I intend to take these steps
      in your behalf, pray be a little more cautious relative to your private amusements; and let me
      hear of no more burying of dogs with funeral honours. That little affair of the interment of
         Eos   at Windsor has attracted the notice of the press, I understand. It was
      indiscreet."  
  "If I adapt my conduct entirely according to the English notions," returned the Prince, "I
      should be compelled to give up those   battues   to which I am so devotedly
      attached."  
  "We must consult Melbourne on that head," observed the Queen.  
  The royal pair then conversed upon a variety of topics which would afford little interest to
      the reader; and shortly after nine her Majesty withdrew.  
  Prince Albert remained in the room to read the newspaper.  
  Henry Holford had listened with almost breathless attention to the conversation which we
      have recorded.  
  The Prince had drawn his chair more closely to the fire, after the Queen left the room; and
      he was now sitting within a couple of yards of the sofa beneath which Holford lay
      concealed.  
  The pot-boy gently drew aside the drapery which hung from the framework of the sofa to the
      floor, and gazed long and intently on the Prince. His look was one in which envy, animosity,
      and admiration were strangely blended. He thought within himself, "Why are you so exalted, and
      I so abased? And yet your graceful person—your intelligent countenance—your handsome features,
      seem to fit you for such an elevated position. Nevertheless, if I had had your advantages of
      education——"  
  The meditations of the presumptuous youth were suddenly and most disagreeably checked:—the
      Prince abruptly threw aside the paper, and his eyes fell on the human countenance that was
      gazing up at him from beneath the sofa.  
  His Royal Highness uttered an exclamation of surprise—not altogether unmingled with alarm;
      and his first impulse was to stretch out his hand towards the bell-rope. But, yielding to a
      second thought, he advanced to the sofa, exclaiming, "Come forth—whoever you may be."  
  Then the miserable pot-boy dragged himself from his hiding-place, and in another
      moment stood, pale and trembling, in the presence of the Prince.  
  "Who are you?" demanded his Royal Highness in a stern tone: "what means this intrusion? how
      came you hither?"  
  Henry Holford fell at the feet of the Prince, and confessed that, urged by an invincible
      curiosity, he had entered the palace on the preceding evening; but he said nothing of his
      previous visits.  
  For a few moments Prince Albert seemed uncertain how to act: he was doubtless hesitating
      between the alternatives of handing the intruder over to the officers of justice, or of
      allowing him to depart unmolested.  
  After a pause, he questioned Holford more closely, and seemed satisfied by the youth's
      assurance that he had really entered the palace through motives of curiosity, and not for any
      dishonest purpose.  
  The Prince accordingly determined to be merciful.  
  "I am willing," he said, "to forgive the present offence; you shall be suffered to depart.
      But I warn you that a repetition of the act will lead to a severe punishment. Follow me."  
  The Prince led the way to an ante-room where a domestic was in waiting.  
  "Conduct this lad as privately as you can from the palace," said his Royal Highness. "Ask
      him no questions—and mention not the incident elsewhere."  
  The Prince withdrew; and the lacquey led Henry Holford through various turnings in the
      palace to the servants' door opening into Pimlico.  
  Thus was the pot-boy ignominiously expelled from the palace; and never—never in his life had
      he felt more thoroughly degraded—more profoundly abased—more contemptible in his own eyes,
      than on the present occasion!  
  
  CHAPTER CXCV.   THE ARISTOCRATIC VILLAIN AND THE LOW MISCREANT.  
  On the northern side of the Thames there is no continuously direct way along the bank for
      any great distance: to walk, for instance, from London Bridge to Vauxhall Bridge, one would be
      compelled to take many turnings, and deviate materially from the course shaped by the
      sinuosity of the stream. But on the southern side of the Thames, one may walk from the foot of
      London Bridge to that of Vauxhall, without scarcely losing sight of the river.  
  In this latter instance, the way would lie along Clink Street, Bankside, and Holland Street,
      to reach Blackfriars Bridge; the Commercial Road to Waterloo Bridge; the Belvidere Road, and
      Pedlar's Acre, to Westminster Bridge; and Stangate, the Bishop's Walk, and Fore Street, to
      reach Vauxhall Bridge.  
  This journey would not occupy nearly so much time as might be supposed ere a second thought
      was devoted to the subject; and yet how large a section of the diameter of London would have
      been traversed!  
  A portion of the path just detailed is denominated Pedlar's Acre; and it lies between
      Westminster and Hungerford Bridges. Adjoining the thoroughfare itself is an acre of ground,
      which is the property of the parish, and is let as a timber-yard. Tradition declares that it
      was given by a pedlar to the parish, on condition that the picture of himself and his dog be
      preserved, in stained glass, in one of the windows of Lambeth church; and in support of this
      legend, such a representation may indeed be seen in the south-east window of the middle aisle
      of the church just mentioned. Nevertheless, one of those antiquaries whose sesquipedalian
      researches are undertaken with a view to elucidate matters of this kind,—a valueless
      labour,—has declared that the land was bequeathed to the parish, in the year 1504, by some
      person totally unknown. Be the origin of the grant and the name of the donor as they may,
      there   is   such a place as Pedlar's Acre; and it is to a public-house in this
      thoroughfare that we must now request our readers to accompany us.  
  Seated in a private room on the first floor was a gentlemanly-looking man, of about
      six-and-thirty years of age. His face was decidedly handsome; but it had a downcast and
      sinister expression little calculated to prepossess a stranger in this person's favour. There
      was also a peculiar curl—more wicked than haughty—about his lip, that seemed to speak of
      strongly concentrated passions: the deep tones of his voice, the peculiar glance of his large
      grey eyes, and the occasional contraction of his brow denoted a mind resolute in carrying out
      any purpose it might have formed.  
  He was dressed with some degree of slovenliness; as if he had not leisure to waste upon the
      frivolity of self-adornment, or as if his means were not sufficient to permit that elegance of
      wardrobe which could alone stimulate his pride in the embellishment of his person.  
  A glass of steaming punch stood untouched near him.  
  It was six o'clock in the evening; and he was evidently waiting for some one.  
  His patience was not, however, put to a very severe test; for scarcely had five minutes
      elapsed after his arrival, when the door opened, and the Resurrection Man entered the
      room.  
  "Good evening, Mr. Vernon," he said, as he carefully closed the door behind him: then,
      taking a seat, he observed, "I hope I have not kept you waiting."  
  "Oh! never mind that," exclaimed Vernon, impatiently. "Have you any good news to
      communicate?"  
  "I am sorry to say that I have not. I called this morning upon the clerk of the parish
      church where your brother was married, and tried him in all ways."  
  "And he refused?" said Vernon, with an angry tone.  
  "He refused," answered Tidkins. "He is timid and old; and, after having first entertained
      the subject, at length backed out of it altogether."  
  "Because you did not offer him enough," cried Vernon, savagely: "because you did not show
      him gold! You are only lukewarm in this affair: you are afraid to risk a few miserable pounds
      in the business. This is not the way to conduct a grand project of such a nature. It is true
      that I am fearfully embarrassed for funds at this moment; but if you had acted with
      liberality—if we eventually succeeded—you   must   be well aware that my generosity would
      know no bounds."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Mr. Vernon," said the Resurrection Man, coolly, "if you have nothing better than reproaches
      to offer as the reward of my exertions in your behalf, we should do well to separate at once.
      I was   not   niggard in my offers to the clerk: I spread fifty golden sovereigns before
      him—told him to take them, and promised as much more when he had done the job. But he
      hesitated—reflected—and at length positively refused altogether."  
  "And you really believe there is no hope in that quarter?" said Vernon, anxiously.  
  "None. If the old clerk would ever agree to serve us, he would have consented this morning.
      I know the man now: he is too timid to suit our purposes. But let us look calmly at the whole
      business, and devise another mode of proceeding," added the Resurrection Man. "You are still
      determined, by some means or other, to get possession of the estates of your elder
      brother?"  
  "My resolution is even increased by every fresh obstacle," replied Vernon. "I have two
      powerful objects to accomplish—revenge and ambition. Lord Ravensworth has treated me with a
      cruelty and a contempt that would goad the most meek and patient to study the means of
      vengeance. Our late father always intended the ready money, of which he   could  
      dispose, to come to me, because the estates were entailed upon my brother. But my father died
      suddenly, and intestate; and my brother, although he well knew our parent's intentions,
      grasped all—gave me nothing! No—I am wrong," added Vernon, with exceeding bitterness of tone
      and manner; "he agreed to allow me five hundred pounds a-year, as a recompense for the loss of
      as many thousands!"  
  "And you accepted the offer?" said the Resurrection Man.  
  "I accepted it as a beggar receives alms sooner than starve," continued Vernon: "I accepted
      it because I had nothing: I had not the means of existence. But I accepted it also as an
      instalment of my just due—and not as a concession on the part of his bounty. My habits are
      naturally extravagant: my expenses are great—I cannot check myself in that respect. Thus am I
      perpetually obtaining advances from my brother's agent; and now I have not another shilling to
      receive until next January."  
  "Nearly a year!" exclaimed the Resurrection Man. "But if you was to call on the
      agent——"  
  "Absurd!" ejaculated Vernon. "Have I not told you that my brother believes me still to be in
      the East—still travelling in Turkey? So long as he supposes me far away, I can carry on my
      projects in London with far greater security. In a word, it is much safer that my presence in
      this country should remain a profound secret. He will die shortly—he   must   die—he is
      daily, steadily parting with vitality. He is passing out of existence by a sure, a speedy, and
      yet an inexplicable progression of decay. Of   his   death, then, I am sure; and when it
      shall occur, how can suspicion attach itself to me—since I am supposed to be abroad—far
      away?"  
  "You are certain that your brother is hastening towards the grave?" said the Resurrection
      Man. "The great obstacle—the greatest, I mean—will be thereby removed. Suppose that Lady
      Ravensworth should be delivered of a boy, would it not be equally easy——"  
  "Yes—it would be easy to put it out of the way by   violence  ," was the rapid reply;
      "but, then, I should risk my neck at the same time that I gained a fortune. No—that will not
      do! I could not incur a danger of so awful a nature. The infant heir to vast estates would be
      jealously protected—attentively watched—surrounded by all wise precautions:—no—it were madness
      to think of practising aught against its life."  
  "Could not the same means by which—even though at a distance—you are undermining the life of
      your brother——"  
  "No—no," replied Vernon, impatiently. "It is not necessary that I should explain to you the
      precise nature of the means by which I succeed in effecting Lord Ravensworth's physical decay;
      suffice it to state that those means could not be applied to a child."  
  "Nevertheless," continued the Resurrection Man, "you must have an agent at Ravensworth Park;
      for if—as I suppose—your brother is dying by means of slow poison, there is some confidential
      creature of your own about his person to administer the drugs."  
  "I have no agent at Ravensworth;—I have no confidential creature about my brother's
      person;—and I have so combined my measures that Lord Ravensworth   is actually committing
       suicide—dying by his own hand  ! Another time I will expound all this to you; for to
         you   alone have I communicated my projects."  
  "Have you not explained yourself to Greenwood?" demanded the Resurrection Man. "I thought
      you told me, the last time we met, that he knew you well—and knew also that you are in
      England?"  
  "I was acquainted with him some four or five years ago, when he was not so prosperous as he
      is—or as he appears to be—at present," replied Vernon; "but having been abroad since that time
      until my return last week, I had lost sight of him—and had even forgotten him. It was not a
      little provoking to run against him the very first day of my arrival in London; and, though I
      endeavoured to avoid him, he persisted in speaking to me."  
  "You are not afraid that he will gossip about your presence in London?" said the
      Resurrection Man.  
  "He promised me most faithfully to keep the fact a profound secret," returned Vernon.  
  "And will he not advance you a small sum for your present purposes?" demanded Tidkins.  
  "I called on him last evening, in consequence of the suggestion contained in your note;—I
      requested a loan for a particular purpose;—but he refused to oblige me," added Vernon, his
      brow contracting. "I wish that I had not so far humbled myself by asking him."  
  "No matter for that," said Tidkins: "we are wandering from our subject. Here is the
      substance of the whole affair:—Lord Ravensworth will soon be gathered to his fathers, as they
      say: but in the meantime Lady Ravensworth may have a child. If it is a daughter, you are all
      safe; if it is a son you are all wrong. I don't know how it is—I'm not superstitious—but in
      these matters, where a good fellow like yourself is within reach of a fortune, and whether you
      are to get it or not depends on the sex of an expected infant,—in such cases, I say, the card
      generally does turn up wrong. Now if the child should be a boy, what will you do?"  
  "I cannot consent to abandon the plan of bribing the clerk to destroy the leaf in the
      register," answered Vernon.  
  "Pshaw! the project is bad—I told you so all along. See how the matter would stand,"
      continued Tidkins:—"Lord Ravensworth dies and leaves, we will suppose, an infant heir—a son.
      Then you suddenly make your appearance, and demand proofs of your brother's marriage. The
      register is searched—a leaf is missing—it is the one which contains the record of the union
      celebrated between Lord Ravensworth and Miss Adeline Enfield! Would not this seem very
      extraordinary? would it not create suspicions that Lord Ravensworth may not have died fairly?
      No—your project, Mr. Vernon, will never do: It is baseless—shallow—childish. It is unworthy of
      you. If you persist in it, I shall wash my hands of the business:—if you will follow my
      advice, you shall be Lord Ravensworth before you are a year older."  
  Vernon could not conceal a sentiment of admiration for that man who thus dexterously
      reasoned on his plans, and thus boldly promised that consummation to which he so fondly
      aspired.  
  "Speak, Mr. Tidkins," he said; "we have met to consult on the necessary course to be
      adopted."  
  "Let us come, then, boldly to the point," continued the Resurrection Man, sinking his voice
      to a whisper: "rest patiently for the confinement of Lady Ravensworth, which, you have learnt,
      is expected to take place in six weeks;—if the issue is a girl, you need trouble yourself no
      more in the business, but calmly wait till death does its work with Lord Ravensworth."  
  "And if the issue be a boy?" said Vernon, gazing fixedly on his companion's countenance.  
  "It must be put out of the way," answered the Resurrection Man, in a low, but stern tone;
      "and you may trust to me that the business shall be done in such a manner as to endanger no
      one's neck."  
  "You think—you imagine that it can be done——" said Vernon, hesitatingly—but still with that
      kind of hesitation which is prepared to yield and to consent.  
  goodness to write the name of   Ravensworth   at the bottom of this blank. I
      shall not use it until you are really Lord Ravensworth, when the signature will be your proper
      one."  
  Vernon cast a hasty glance over the bill, and observed, "It is a five-and-twenty shilling
      stamp."  
  "Yes—to cover three thousand pounds," returned the Resurrection Man. "That will not be too
      much for making you a peer and a rich man. Besides, I intend to advance you a matter of fifty
      pounds at once, for your immediate necessities."  
  "And if I should happen to fail in obtaining the title and estates of Ravensworth," said
      Vernon, "this document would enable you to immure me in a debtor's prison."  
  "Ridiculous!" ejaculated Tidkins, impatiently. "In that case your name would not be
         Ravensworth  ; and it is the name of   Ravensworth   which I require to this
      bill. As for throwing your person into a prison, what good could that do me? A dead carcass is
      of more value than a living one," he added, in a muttering tone.  
  Vernon did not overhear this remark—or, if he did, he comprehended not the allusion; but he
      signed the bill without farther hesitation.  
  The Resurrection Man consigned it to his pocket-book, and then drew forth a purse filled
      with gold, which he handed to his companion.  
  Vernon received it with a stiff and haughty inclination of the head:—his necessities
      compelled him to accept the succour; but his naturally proud feelings made him shrink from its
      source.  
  Having so far arranged the matters which they had met to discuss, the aristocratic villain
      and the low miscreant separated.  
  Vernon returned to his lodging in Stamford Street; and the Resurrection Man proceeded into
      the Westminster Road, where he took a cab, saying to the driver, "Golden Lane, Saint
      Luke's."  
  
  CHAPTER CXCVI.   THE OLD HAG AND THE RESURRECTION MAN.  
  The Old Hag, who has so frequently figured in former portions of our narrative, had latterly
      become more prosperous, if not more respectable, than when we first introduced her to our
      readers.  
  From having been the occupant of only one room in the house in the court leading from Golden
      Lane, she had become the lessee of the entire dwelling. The commencement of this success was
      owing to her connexion with Lady Cecilia Harborough in the intrigue of the "living statue;"
      and from that moment affairs seemed to have taken a new turn with her. At all events her
      "business" increased; and the sphere of her infamy became enlarged.  
  She would have taken another and better house, in some fashionable quarter, and re-commenced
      the avocation of a first-rate brothel-keeper—the pursuit of the middle period of her life;—but
      she reasoned that she was known to a select few where she was—that the obscurity of her
      dwelling was favourable to many of the nefarious projects in which her aid was required—and
      that she was too old to dream of forming a new connexion elsewhere.  
  It would be impossible to conceive a soul more diabolically hardened, more inveterately
      depraved, than that of this old hag.  
  In order to increase her resources, and occupy, as she said, "her leisure time," she had
      hired or bought some half-dozen young girls, about ten or twelve years old;—hired or bought
      them, whichever the reader pleases, of their parents, a "consideration" having been given for
      each, and the said parents comforting themselves with the idea that their children were well
      provided for!  
  These children of tender age were duly initiated by the old hag in all the arts and pursuits
      of prostitution. They were sent in pairs to parade Aldersgate Street, Fleet Street, and
      Cheapside; and their special instructions were to practise their allurements upon elderly men,
      whose tastes might be deemed more vitiated and eccentric than those of the younger loungers of
      the great thoroughfares where prostitution most thrives.  
  A favourite scheme of the old woman's was this:—One of her juvenile emissaries succeeded, we
      will suppose, in alluring to the den in Golden Lane an elderly man whose outward
      respectability denoted a well-filled purse, and ought to have been associated with better
      morals. When the wickedness was consummated, and the elderly gentleman was about to depart,
      the old hag would meet him and the young girl on the stairs, and, affecting to treat the
      latter as a stranger who had merely used her house as a common place of such resort, would
      seem stupefied at the idea "  of so youthful a creature having been brought to her abode for
       such a purpose  ." She would then question the girl concerning her age; and the reply
      would be "  under twelve  " of course. Thus the elderly voluptuary would suddenly find
      himself liable to punishment for a misdemeanour, for intriguing with a girl beneath the age of
      twelve; and the virtuous indignation of the old hag would be vented in assertions that though
      she kept a house of accommodation for grown-up persons, she abhorred the encouragement of
      juvenile profligacy. The result would be that the hoary old sinner found himself compelled to
      pay a considerable sum as hush-money.  
  We might occupy many pages with the details of the tricks and artifices which the old hag
      taught these young girls. And of a surety, they were subjects sufficiently plastic to enable
      her to model them to all her infamous purposes. Born of parents who never took the trouble to
      inculcate a single moral lesson, even if they knew any, those poor creatures had actually
      remained ignorant of the meaning of right and wrong until they were old enough to take an
      interest in the events that were passing around them. Then, when they missed some lad of their
      acquaintance, and, on inquiry, learnt that he had been sent to prison for taking something
      which did not belong to him, they began to understand that it was   dangerous   to do
      such an act—but it did not strike them that it was   wrong  . Again, if by accident they
      heard that another boy whom they knew, had got a good place, was very industrious, and in a
      fair way to prosper, they would perceive some   utility   in such conduct, but would
      still remain unable to appreciate its   rectitude  .  
  into Old Street, Barbican, or Beech Street. But those excursions were not
      frequent. During their childhood they rolled half-naked in the gutters,—eating the
      turnip-parings and cabbage-stalks which were tossed out into the street with other
      offal,—poking about in the kennels to find lost halfpence,—or even plundering the
      cat's-meat-man and the tripe-shop for the means of satisfying their hunger! This mode of life
      was but little varied;—unless, indeed, it were by the more agreeable recreations of particular
      days in the year. Thus, for instance, November was welcomed as the time for making a
      Guy-Fawkes, and carrying it round in procession amidst the pestilential mazes of the warren;
      August gave them "oyster day," to be signalised by the building of shell-grottoes, which were
      an excuse for importuning passengers for alms; and the December season had its "boxing-day,"
      on which occasion the poor ragged creatures would be seen thronging the doors of the oil-shops
      to beg for Christmas-candles!  
  These had been the only holidays which characterised the childhood of those unfortunate,
      lost, degraded girls whose lot we are describing. Sunday was not marked by cleanlier apparel,
      nor better food: if it were singled out at all from the other days of the week, the
      distinguishing sign was merely the extra drunkenness of the fathers of the families. Good
      Friday brought the little victims no hot-cross buns, nor Christmas Day its festivities, nor
      Shrove Tuesday its pancakes:—they had no knowledge of holy periods nor sacred ceremonies;—no
      seasonable luxury reminded them of the anniversaries of the birth, the death, or the
      resurrection of a Redeemer.  
  No—in physical privations and moral blindness had they passed their infancy:—and thus,
      having gone through a complete initiation into the miseries and sufferings of life, they were
      prepared at the age of ten to commence an apprenticeship of crime. And the old hag was an
      excellent mistress: were there an University devoted to graduates in Wickedness, this horrible
      wretch would have taken first-class Degrees in its schools.  
  Thus, be it understood, up to the age of ten or eleven, when those poor girls were
      transferred by their unfeeling parents (who were glad to get rid of them) to the care of the
      old woman, they had scarcely ever been out of the warren where they were born. Now a new
      world, as it were, dawned upon them. They laid aside their fetid rags, and put on garments
      which appeared queenly robes in their eyes. They were sent into streets lined with splendid
      shops, and beheld gay carriages and equipages of all kinds. Hitherto the principal gin-shop in
      their rookery had appeared the most gorgeous palace in the world in their eyes, with its
      revolving burners, its fine windows, and its meretriciously-dressed bar-girls:—now they could
      feast their gaze with the splendours of the linen-drapers' and jewellers' establishments on
      Ludgate Hill. Their existence seemed to be suddenly invested with charms that they had never
      before dreamt of; and they adored the old hag as the authoress of their good fortune. Thus she
      established a sovereign dominion over her poor ignorant victims through the medium of their
      mistaken gratitude; and when she told them to sin, they sinned—sinned, too, before they even
      knew the meaning of virtue!  
  Such was the history—not of one only—but of all the young girls whom this atrocious old hag
      had bought from their parents!  
  To many—to most of our readers, the details of this description may seem improbable,—nay,
      impossible.  
  The picture is, alas! too true.  
  Poor fallen children! the world scorns you—society contemns you—the unthinking blame you.
      But, just heaven! are ye more culpable than that community which took no precaution to prevent
      your degradation, and which now adopts no measures to reclaim you?  
  As for ourselves, we declare most solemnly that we believe no age to have been more
      disgraced than the present one, and no country more culpable than our own. In this age of
      Bibles and country of glorious civilisation,—in this epoch of missions and land of
      refinement,—in this period of grand political reform, and nation of ten thousand philanthropic
      institutions,—in the middle of the nineteenth century, and with all the advantages of profound
      peace,—and, what is worst of all, in that great city which vaunts itself the metropolis of the
      civilised world, there are thousands of young children whose neglected, hopeless, and
      miserable condition can only be looked upon as an apprenticeship calculated to fill our
      streets with prostitutes of finished depravity—to people our gaols, hulks, and penal colonies
      with villains familiar with every phase of crime—and to supply our scaffolds with victims for
      the diversion of a rude and ruthless mob!  
  It was nine o'clock in the evening; and the old hag was seated in the same room where we
      have before frequently seen her.  
  She was, however, surrounded by several additional comforts. She no longer burnt turf in her
      grate, but good Wall's End coals. She no longer placed her feet on an old mat, but on a thick
      carpet. She no longer bought her gin by the quartern or half pint, but by the bottle. She
      sweetened her tea with lump sugar, instead of moist; and in the place of a stew of tripe or
      cow-heel, she had a joint cooked at the bake-house, or a chicken boiled on her own fire.  
  Her select patrons had contributed much towards this improvement in her circumstances; but
      the luxuries in which she could now indulge, were provided for her by the prostitution of her
      young victims.  
  She was now dozing in her arm-chair, with her great cat upon her lap; but even in the midst
      of her semi-slumber, her ears were awake to the least motion of the knocker of the
      house-door—that sound which was the indication of business!  
  Thus, when, true to the time appointed in his note, the Resurrection Man arrived at the
      house, not many moments elapsed ere he was admitted into the hag's parlour.  
  "So you have discovered the address of Katherine Wilmot," said the hag. "Where does she
      reside?"  
  "No matter where," returned the Resurrection Man; "it is sufficient that I can communicate
      with her, or bring her up to London, when it suits me. I have come now to have a full
      understanding with you on the subject; and if we play our cards well, we may obtain a round
      sum of money from this girl—that is, supposing she is really the child of the Harriet Wilmot
      whom you knew."  
  Wilmot whom I knew, and whose image sometimes haunts me in my dreams."  
  "But what proofs have you of the fact?" demanded the Resurrection Man. "It will not suit me
      to take any more trouble in the matter, unless I know for certain that I am not running a
      wild-goose chase."  
  "I shall not tell you how I came to know Harriet Wilmot seventeen years ago, nor any thing
      more about her than I can help," said the old hag resolutely. "I was, however, well acquainted
      with her—I knew all about her. With her own lips she told me her history. She was for some
      time engaged to be married to a young man—young at that period—at Southampton. His name was
      Smithers. Circumstances separated them before the realisation of their hopes and wishes; and
      she came to London with her father, who soon afterwards died of a broken heart through
      misfortunes in business."  
  "Broken heart!" exclaimed the Resurrection Man contemptuously: "who ever died of a broken
      heart? But never mind—go on."  
  "Harriet was alone in the world—an orphan—unprotected—and without friends or resources,"
      continued the hag. "She was accordingly compelled to go out to service. A wealthy gentleman
      saw her, and fell in love with her—but I shall not tell you all about   that  ! No—I
      shall not tell you about   that  ! Harriet's was a strange fate—a sad fate; and I do not
      like to think of the part I acted in some respects towards her," added the old woman, shaking
      her head, as if it were in regret of the past.  
  "Go on," said the Resurrection Man. "If you have got any thing unpleasant in your memory,
      all the shakings of heads in the world won't drive it out."  
  "Alack! you speak the truth—you speak the truth," muttered the old woman. "It was the
      blackest deed I ever committed—I wish it had never occurred: it troubles me very often; and
      when I cannot sleep at night, I am constantly thinking of Harriet Wilmot."  
  "What is all this to lead to?" demanded Tidkins, impatiently.  
  "I shall not trouble you with many more of my reflections," said the hag. "Harriet became a
      mother: she had a daughter, on whom she bestowed the name of Katherine. Three or four years
      afterwards I lost sight of her, and never beheld her more. From that time all traces of
      herself and her child were gone until last year, when the murder of Reginald Tracy's
      housekeeper placed the name of Katherine Wilmot before the public. That name immediately
      struck me: the newspapers said she was sixteen years old—precisely the age that Harriet's
      daughter must have been. Then the name of Smithers was mixed up in the proceedings which
      ensued: I saw it all—Harriet must be dead, and Smithers had adopted her child as his niece!
      But, to convince myself still further, I went to the Old Bailey—I saw Katherine in the dock:
      you might have knocked me down with a feather, so strong was the resemblance between the young
      girl and her deceased mother! I came home—I was very ill: methought I had seen the ghost of
      one whom I had deeply, deeply injured!"  
  "And now you have so far forgotten your remorse that you are desirous to turn your knowledge
      of Katherine's parentage to a good account?" said the Resurrection Man, with a sneering laugh.
      "But how do you know that she is not well informed on that head already?"  
  "She cannot be—she cannot be," answered the old hag; "she would not bear the name of
         Wilmot   if she was. Besides, I have since ascertained that her mother died when she
      was only four years old; and therefore Katherine was too young to receive any revelation from
      her parent's lips. No—no: I have good reason to believe that Katherine knows nothing of her
      paternal origin."  
  "I am now perfectly satisfied, from all you have told me, that Katherine Wilmot is the
      daughter of the Harriet whom you knew," said the Resurrection Man; "and as you seem so
      positive that she is unaware of many important particulars concerning her birth, I will
      proceed in the business you have proposed to me."  
  "Where is she living?" inquired the old woman.  
  "If I tell you that," said Tidkins, "what guarantee have I got that you will not post off
      alone to her, extort the purchase-money for your secrets, and chouse me out of my reglars?
      Look you—I have been at the trouble and expense of finding her out—which you never could have
      done—and I must go halves with you in the produce of the affair."  
  "So you shall—so you may," returned the old woman. "But I will not speak to her in your
      hearing. I don't know how it is that I have a strange superstitious awe in connexion with all
      that concerns Harriet Wilmot's memory and the existence of her child. I cannot help the
      feeling—I cannot help it."  
  "By Satan," exclaimed the Resurrection Man, darting a furious glance upon the hag, "you are
      either a drivelling fool, or you are deceiving me. You entertain compunction about these
      Wilmots—and yet you purpose to obtain money from the girl. Now is this consistent? Take care
      how you play with me; for—if I catch you out in any of your tricks—I will hang you up to your
      own bedpost as readily as I would wring the neck of that damned old cat."  
  "You shall see whether I will deceive you—you shall see," cried the old hag, with some
      degree of alarm. "Arrange the business as you will, so long as I may have speech of Katherine
      without being overheard; but you shall be present when she pays me for the secret which I have
      to communicate."  
  "Let that be the understanding, and I am agreeable," observed the Resurrection Man. "Will it
      suit you to go a few miles out of town with me to-morrow."  
  "Is it to see Katherine?" inquired the hag.  
  "What the devil else do you think I want your company for?" cried Tidkins: "to take you to
      dine at Greenwich or Blackwall—eh? Not quite such a fool as that! However, to-morrow morning
      you may expect me at seven o'clock——"  
  "It is not light at that hour," observed the hag.  
  "I prefer the dusk of either morning or evening," answered the Resurrection Man. "It suits
      me better—because I have a few enemies in London. But, as I was saying, I shall call for you
      at seven to-morrow morning; a friend of mine—one Banks of Globe Town—has a covered spring-cart
      and a capital bit of horse-flesh. He will drive us to where we have to go, in no time. So
      don't keep us waiting—as the vehicle will be at the bottom of the lane by a quarter to
      seven."  
  The old hag promised to be punctual; and the Resurrection Man took his departure from her
      den.  
  
  CHAPTER CXCVII.   ELLEN AND KATHERINE.  
  Turn we now to the farm-house of the Bennets near Hounslow—the residence of Katherine
      Wilmot.  
  The morning was dry and beautiful—one of those mornings which sometimes cheer us towards the
      end of January, and give us a short foretaste of the approaching spring.  
  It was nine o'clock, when the door of the farm-house opened, and two young females came
      forth to enjoy the fresh air of a charming day.  
  These were Ellen Monroe—(for by her maiden name must we continue to call her, as she herself
      maintained it for the present)—and Katherine Wilmot.  
  Never had Ellen appeared more beautiful; nor Katherine more sweetly interesting.  
  They had evidently been conversing on a subject which gave them pleasure; and they were both
      intent on continuing the same delightful topic during their walk.  
  The subject of that discourse had inspired Ellen with emotions of pride, as well as of joy.
      She walked with a dignity and yet an elegance of motion which denoted the vigour of that vital
      system which was so highly developed in her voluptuous style of beauty. The generous and noble
      feelings of the heart shone in the light of her deep blue eyes, and in the animation of that
      countenance where the fair and red were so exquisitely blended. They were indicated, too, by
      the expression of that short and somewhat haughty upper lip which belonged to the classic
      regularity of her features, and in the dilation of the rose-tinted nostrils.  
  Ellen was a finer and far lovelier creature than Katherine;—but the latter was characterised
      by more of that tender sensibility and touching interest which physiologists deem the
      development of the intellectual system. The eyes were intensely expressive; and over her
      features a soft, pale, and modest light seemed to be shed. Her figure was delicate and slight,
      and contrasted strongly with that luxuriant expansion which constituted the fine and not less
      symmetrical proportions of Ellen.  
  "I shall really experience deep regret to leave your dwelling-place, dear Katherine,"
      observed Ellen, as they entered a hard and dry pathway leading through the fields; "for even
      at this season, it possesses many attractions superior to the vicinity of a great city."  
  "In the warmer months it is a beautiful spot," returned Katherine. "But you will not leave
      me to-day? Consider—you have only been here a few hours——"  
  "Since yesterday morning," exclaimed Ellen, with a smile; "and in that time we have formed a
      friendship which may never, I hope, be interrupted."  
  "Oh! never," said Katherine warmly. "It was so kind of you to come and find me out in my
      seclusion—so considerate to make me acquainted with all those wonderful events which have
      occurred to my benefactor——"  
  "Nay—neither kind nor considerate," again interrupted Ellen. "Richard's letter, dated from
      the city of Abrantani on the 10th, and received by my father the day before yesterday,
      enjoined him to send me to see you—to make your acquaintance—to assure myself that you are
      well and happy—and to communicate to you tidings which Richard feels will be welcome to all
      his friends."  
  "Oh! welcome indeed!" exclaimed Katherine, with grateful enthusiasm. "How much do I owe to
      him—and how worthy is he of that rank which has rewarded his grand deeds! Such a man could not
      long remain a humble individual: his great talents—his noble heart—his fine qualities were
      certain to elevate him above the sphere in which he was born."  
  "And now will the name of Markham go down to posterity," said Ellen, proudly: "and the glory
      which Richard has thrown around it, will be to some degree shared by all who bear it. Oh! this
      was prophesied to me but a little while ago;—and yet,   then   how far was I from
      suspecting that the realisation of the prediction was so near at hand, especially too, as that
      prediction was not uttered with any reference to Richard—but to another,—  that other
       alluding to himself  !"  
  Katherine cast a glance of surprise towards her companion, whose last words were
      unintelligible to her; and Ellen, apparently recollecting herself, hastened to add, "But I was
      speaking of matters which are yet unknown—yet strange to you. Think no more of my observations
      on that topic. There are times when the soul is lost and bewildered in the contemplation of
      the world's strange events and marvellous vicissitudes; and such has often been the case with
      me during the last few days. It was on the 16th of January that we received the letter which
      imparted us the tidings of Richard's first exploit—the capture of Estella. Oh! how sincerely I
      prayed for his success—and yet I trembled for him! My father, too, had some misgivings; but we
      endeavoured to reassure each other, mutually concealing our fears. Two or three days
      afterwards we received the news of his triumphant entry into Villabella;—another interval of a
      few days, and we had a letter from him, giving us a brief account of the Battle of Piacere.
      Our fears were almost entirely dissipated by the tidings of this glorious achievement; and if
      any doubts yet lingered, they were completely dispelled by the news of the great victory of
      Abrantani. Oh! how well has he earned that coronet which now adorns his brow!—how well does
      that proud title of Marquis become the great, the generous, and the good!"  
  "Would that his struggles were over, and that the civil war was put an end to in
      Castelcicala!" exclaimed Miss Wilmot—for the news of the great victory beneath the walls of
      Montoni were yet unknown in England.  
  "I have no fears for the result," said Ellen: "a conqueror has he hitherto been—and a
      conqueror will he remain! Heaven itself prospers him in this undertaking: the wise
      dispensations of Providence are apparent throughout his career in the Grand Duchy. Had the
      first expedition, which landed at Ossore, succeeded, there were great chiefs—Grachia and
      Morosino—who would have taken the lead in the State. But the enterprise failed—and those
      patriots were numbered with the slain. The idea of releasing from their captivity his
      companions in that fatal affair, led Richard to the attack of Estella. He succeeded—and he
      stood alone at the head of the movement. There was not a chief amongst the patriots to dispute
      his title to that elevated situation."  
  greatness," remarked Katherine. "Methinks that when I see him again, I shall be
      strangely embarrassed in his presence:—instead of addressing him by the familiar name of
         Mr. Markham  , my lips must tutor themselves to breathe the formal words '  My
       Lord  ,' and '  Your Lordship  ;' and——"  
  "Oh! you wrong our noble-hearted friend—our mutual benefactor," interrupted Ellen. "Rank and
      distinction—wealth and glory cannot change   his   heart: he will only esteem them as the
      elements of an influence and of a power to do much good."  
  The young ladies paused in their conversation, because two persons were approaching along
      the pathway.  
  A man muffled in a large cloak, and with a countenance of cadaverous repulsiveness scowling
      above the collar, advanced first; and behind him walked a female whose bowed form denoted the
      decrepitude of old age. There was an interval of perhaps a dozen yards between them; for the
      woman was unable to keep pace with the more impatient progress of the man.  
  "Is this the way, young ladies, to Farmer Bennet's?" demanded the foremost individual, when
      he was within a few feet of Ellen and Katherine.  
  "It is," replied Kate. "You may see the roof appearing from the other side of yonder
      eminence. Mr. Bennet is not, however, within at this moment: he has gone to a neighbouring
      village on business, and will not return till two o'clock."  
  "Then you know Farmer Bennet?" exclaimed the Resurrection Man—for he was the individual who
      had addressed the young ladies.  
  But before Katherine could give any reply, an exclamation of astonishment broke from the
      lips of Ellen, whose eyes had just recognised the countenance of the old hag.  
  "Well, Miss—do I have the pleasure of meeting you once more?" said the detestable woman,
      with a leer comprehensively significant in allusion to the past: then, as her eyes wandered
      from Ellen's countenance to that of Katherine, she suddenly became strangely excited, and
      exclaimed, "Ah! Miss Wilmot!"  
  "Is   this   Miss Wilmot?" demanded the Resurrection Man, with an impatient glance
      towards Katherine, while he really addressed himself to the old hag.  
  "My name is Wilmot," said Kate, in her soft and somewhat timid tone. "Was it for me that
      your visit to the farm was intended?"  
  "Neither more nor less, Miss," answered the Resurrection Man. "This person," he continued,
      indicating his horrible companion, "has something important to say to you."  
  "Yes—and we must speak alone, too," said the hag.  
  "No!" ejaculated Ellen, hastily and firmly; "that may not be. I am Miss Wilmot's friend—the
      friend, too, of one in whom she places great confidence; and whatever you may have to
      communicate to her cannot be a secret in respect to me."  
  And, as she uttered these words, she glanced significantly at her young companion.  
  "Yes," said Kate, who understood the hint conveyed in that look, although she was of course
      entirely ignorant of the motives of Ellen's precaution: "yes—whatever you may wish to
      communicate to me must be told in the presence of my friend."  
  "But the business is a most delicate one," cried the Resurrection Man.  
  "Oh! I have no doubt of that," exclaimed Ellen, with a contemptuous smile which the hag
      fully comprehended.  
  "Do you know this young lady?" asked the Resurrection Man, in an under tone, of the old
      woman, while he rapidly indicated Ellen.  
  "I know that young lady well," said the hag aloud, and with a meaning glance: "I know you
      well,—do I not, Miss Monroe?"  
  "I am not disposed to deny the fact," replied Ellen, coolly; "and I can assure you that my
      disposition is as resolute and determined as you have always found it to be. Therefore, if you
      have aught to communicate to Miss Wilmot, say it quickly—or come with us to the farm, where
      you will be more at your ease: but, remember, I do not quit this young lady while you are with
      her."  
  "You will repent of this obstinacy, Miss—you will repent of this obstinacy," muttered the
      hag.  
  "It may be so," said Ellen: "nevertheless, menaces will not deter me from my purpose."  
  "If you thwart me, I can proclaim matters that you would wish unrevealed," retorted the hag,
      but in a whisper apart to Ellen.  
  "Act as you please," exclaimed this young lady aloud, and with a superb glance of
      contemptuous defiance. "Your impertinence only convinces me the more profoundly of the
      prudence of my resolution to remain with Miss Wilmot."  
  The hag made no reply: she knew not how to act.  
  Tidkins was not, however, equally embarrassed. He saw that Ellen was acquainted with the old
      woman's character, and that she entertained suspicions of a nature which threatened to mar the
      object of his visit to that neighbourhood.  
  "Miss Monroe," he said,—"for such, I learn, is your name,—I beg of you to allow my companion
      a few moments' conversation with your young friend. They need not retire a dozen yards from
      this spot; and your eye can remain upon them."  
  "No," returned Ellen, positively: "your companion shall have no private conference with Miss
      Wilmot. Miss Wilmot's affairs are no secret to me;—she has voluntarily made me acquainted with
      her past history and her present condition—and she cannot now wish me to remain a stranger to
      the object of your visit, however delicate be the nature of that business."  
  "I am desirous that Miss Monroe should hear your communications," added Kate.  
  "I will not speak to Miss Wilmot in the presence of witnesses," said the old hag.  
  "Then we have nothing farther to prevent us from returning to the farm immediately,"
      exclaimed Ellen; and, taking Katherine's arm, she turned away with a haughty inclination of
      her head.  
  "Neither need we remain here any longer, Mr. Tidkins," said the hag.  
  "Tidkins!" repeated Ellen, with a convulsive shudder—for the name reached her ear as she was
      leading her young friend homeward:—"Tidkins!" she murmured, the blood running cold in her
      veins; "my God! what new plot can now be contemplated?"  
  And she hurried Katherine along the path, as if a wild beast were behind them.  
  "Do you know those people?" asked Miss Wilmot, alarmed by her companion's tone and
      manner.  
  and with rapid utterance,—"unfortunately I can attest that the woman whom we have
      just met, is the vilest of the vile; and the mention of that man's name has revealed to me the
      presence of a wretch capable of every atrocity—a villain whose crimes are of the blackest
      dye—an assassin whose enmity to our benefactor Richard is as furious as it is unwearied. Come,
      Katharine—come: hasten your steps;—we shall not be in safety until we reach the farm."  
  And the two young ladies hurried rapidly along the path towards the dwelling, every now and
      then casting timid glances behind them.  
  But the Resurrection Man and the old hag had not thought it expedient to follow.  
  
  CHAPTER CXCVIII.   A GLOOMY VISITOR.  
  As soon as the two young ladies had reached the farm-house, Ellen addressed Katherine with
      alarming seriousness of manner.  
  "My dear friend," she said, "some plot is in existence against your peace. That
      fearful-looking man and that horrible old woman are perfect fiends in mortal shape."  
  "But what cause of enmity can they entertain against me?" asked Katharine, drawing her chair
      close to Ellen's seat with that sweet confidence which a younger sister would have been
      expected to show towards an elder one. "I never saw them before in my life, to my knowledge;
      and I certainly never can have injured them."  
  "You are rich—and that is a sufficient motive to inspire the man with designs against you:
      you are pretty—and that is a sufficient reason for inducing the woman to spread her nets in
      your path. The man," continued Ellen, "has more than once attempted the life of our generous
      benefactor Richard; and that old hag, Katherine, is a wretch who lives upon the ruin of young
      females."  
  At this moment Mrs. Bennet entered the room; and, observing the disturbed countenances of
      Ellen and Katherine, she felt alarmed.  
  Ellen immediately communicated to her the particulars of the adventure just related, and
      concluded with these observations:—"The person of the man was previously unknown to me; but
      Mr. Markham had made me familiar with his name. Thus, when I heard that name breathed by his
      infamous companion, I recognised in him the monster of whose crimes my benefactor has related
      so dread a history. As for the woman," added Ellen, after a moment's hesitation, "she has been
      pointed out to me as one of those vile wretches who render cities and great towns dangerous to
      young females. Indeed, she once practised her arts upon me:—hence I am well aware of her true
      character."  
  Mrs. Bennet was dreadfully frightened at the incident which had occurred; but, like
      Katherine, she was somewhat at a loss to conceive what possible object the two bad characters
      whom Ellen so bitterly denounced, could have in view with respect to her young charge.  
  The trio were still conversing upon the mysterious occurrence, when Farmer Bennet entered
      the room.  
  Of course the narrative had to be repeated to him; and he was much troubled by what he
      heard.  
  The dinner was served up; but none of those who sate down to it ate with any appetite. A
      vague and uncertain consciousness of impending danger or of serious annoyance oppressed them
      all.  
  The table was cleared; and Mrs. Bennet had just produced a bottle of excellent home-made
      wine, "to cheer their spirits," as she said, when the servant entered to announce that a
      person desired to speak to Mr. Bennet. The farmer ordered the individual in question to be
      admitted; and the servant, having disappeared for a few moments, returned, ushering in an
      elderly man dressed in shabby black, and wearing a dingy white cravat with very limp ends.  
  "Your servant, ma'am—your most obedient, young ladies," said he: then, starting with
      well-affected surprise, he ejaculated, "Ah! if my eyes doesn't deceive me in my old age,
      that's Miss Kate Wilmot, werily and truly!"  
  "Mr. Banks!" said Katherine, in a tone expressive of both surprise and aversion; for she
      remembered that the undertaker used to call upon Smithers to purchase the rope by means of
      which criminals had been executed.  
  "Yes, my dear—my name is, as you say, Banks—Edward Banks, of Globe Lane, London—Furnisher of
      Funerals on New and Economic Principles—Good Deal Coffin, Eight Shillings and Sixpence—Stout
      Oak, Thirty-five Shillings—Patent Funeral Carriage, One Pound Eleven—First Rate
      Carriage-Funeral, Mutes and Feathers, Four Pound Four—Catholic Fittings——"  
  "Really, sir," exclaimed Mr. Bennet, impatiently, "this is not a very pleasant subject for
      conversation; and if you have come upon no other business than to recite your
      Prospectus——"  
  "A thousand apologies, sir—a thousand apologies," interrupted Mr. Banks, calmly sinking into
      a seat. "But whenever I see a few or a many mortal wessels gathered together, I always think
      that the day must come when they'll be nothink more than blessed carkisses and then, Mr.
      Bennet," added the undertaker, shaking his head solemnly, and applying a dirty white
      handkerchief to his eyes, "how pleasant to the wirtuous feelings must it be to know where to
      get the funeral done on the newest and most economic principles."  
  "Katherine, do you know this person?" inquired the farmer, irritated by the intruder's
      pertinacity in his gloomy topic.  
  "I have seen him three or four times at Mr. Smithers' house in London," was the answer; "but
      Mr. Banks well knows that I never exchanged ten words with him in my life."  
  "Then you do not come to see Miss Wilmot?" demanded Mr. Bennet, turning towards the
      undertaker.  
  "No, sir—no," answered Banks, heaving a deep sigh. "Did you not perceive, sir, that I was
      quite took at a non-plush when I set my wenerable eyes on the blessed countenance of that
      charming gal? But pardon me, sir—pardon me, if I am someot long in coming to the pint:—it is,
      however, my natur' to ramble when I reflects on the pomps and wanities of this wicked world;
      and natur' is natur,' sir, after all—is it   not  , ma'am?"  
  Here he turned with a most dolorous expression of countenance towards Mrs. Bennet.  
  laconic reply:—nor more she did, good woman! for it was not even probable that
      Mr. Banks quite understood himself.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Now, sir, will you have the goodness to explain the nature of your business with me—since
      it is with   me  , no doubt, that you have business to transact?" said the farmer, in a
      tone which showed how disagreeable the undertaker's whining nonsense was to him.  
  "Something tells me that this man's visit bears reference to our adventure of the morning,"
      whispered Ellen to Katherine. "Do not offer to leave the room: let us hear all he has to
      say."  
  Katherine replied by a meaning look, and then glanced with suspicious timidity towards
      Banks, who was again speaking.  
  "My business isn't to be explained in a moment, sir," said the undertaker; "and I must beg
      your patience for a little while."  
  "Go on," exclaimed the farmer, throwing himself back in his seat, and folding his arms with
      the desperate air of a man who knew that he could only get rid of a troublesome visitor by
      allowing him to tell his story in his own way.  
  "You're in mourning, ma'am, I see," observed Mr. Banks, turning towards Mrs. Bennet. "Ah! I
      remember—that wexatious affair of the Rector of Saint David's. Pray, ma'am, who
         undertook   the funeral of your blessed defunct sister?"  
  "Sir!" exclaimed Mrs. Bennet, tears starting into her eyes.  
  "No offence, ma'am—no offence. Only I should like it to be known in these here parts that
      Edward Banks—of Globe Lane, London, undertakes on new and economic principles, and doesn't
      mind distances. S'pose, sir," continued this most disagreeable visitor, again addressing the
      farmer, "s'pose you come to me some fine morning and says, '  Banks  ,' says you, '  my
       dear wife has just become a blessed defunct  ——'"  
  "This is too much!" ejaculated Mr. Bennet, starting from his seat. "Have you, or have you
      not, any business to engage my attention?"  
  "I'm coming to the pint—I'm coming to the pint this moment," said Banks. "Pray sit down for
      a few minutes—I shan't ingross much more of your wallyable time; for time really   is  his head so mournfully that worthy Mrs. Bennet could not help thinking he was a
      very good and humane, though somewhat a prosy individual. "When we look around us, and behold
      how many benighted creeturs lives in total recklessness for the futur'—without putting by in
      an old stocking or any where else a single penny towards buying 'em a decent coffin—it's
      enough to make one's hair stand on end. But I see you are growing impatient, sir:—well—perhaps
      my feelings does carry me away. Still I don't mean no harm. Howsomever—business is business,
      as coffins is coffins, or carkisses is carkisses; and so here's to business in a jiffy."  
  With these words Mr. Banks drew from his capacious coat-pocket a brown-paper parcel, about a
      foot long, three inches wide, and as many deep.  
  Then he began, with most provoking deliberation of manner, to unroll the numerous folds of
      paper in which the precious object of so much care was wrapped; and, while he thus aroused the
      curiosity of his spectators to the utmost, he continued talking in a more lachrymose style
      than ever.  
  "There is dooties which we owe to heaven—and there is dooties which we owe to our
      fellow-creeturs. To heaven, ma'am, we owes a obligation of wirtue: to our fellow-creeturs we
      owes respect and decency when they're no more. Wirtues, ma'am, is like the white nails on a
      black-cloth covered coffin: the more there is of 'em, the stronger is the coffin, and the
      better it looks. Wices, ma'am, is like the knots in a common deal coffin: the more there is of
      'em, the veaker is the coffin, and the wuss it looks. I'm now a-going to show you, ma'am—and
      you, too, sir—and you also, young ladies—a object of the deepest interest to us poor mortal
      wessels. I've wrapped it up in this wise, 'cause I've paytented it, and this is the only model
      I've got. When once it's generally known, the whole world will thank me for the inwention; and
      posterity will remember with gratitude the name of Banks of Globe Lane—Furnisher of Funerals
      on New and Economic Principles. You see, the parcel is gettin' smaller and smaller—'cause the
      blessed object was as well wrapped up as a young babby. However—here's the last fold:—off with
      the paper—and there's the concentrating focus of all interest!"  
  As Mr. Banks wound up with this beautiful peroration, he disengaged from the last fold of
      paper a miniature model of a coffin, about eight inches long, and wide and deep in proportion.
      It was covered with black silk, and was studded with innumerable white nails.  
  But as he placed it, with a glance of almost paternal affection, upon the table, the farmer
      started up, exclaiming, "I have already put up with your insolence too long. What does this
      unwarrantable intrusion upon my privacy mean? Speak, sir: have you any thing to say to
      me?"  
  "I am now coming to the pint at length," answered the undertaker, but little abashed by this
      rebuff. "In one word," he continued, producing a small memorandum-book and preparing to write
      with a pencil,—"in one word, I want you and your family to let me put down each of your
      names——"  
  "For what?" demanded Bennet, impatiently.  
  "For a Paytent Silk-covered Silver-nailed Indestructible Wood-seasoned Coffin," was the calm
      reply. "It's warranted to keep as good as new till you want it."  
  Mr. Bennet fell back into his seat, completely stupefied by this extraordinary
      announcement;—Mrs. Bennet cast horrified glances at the undertaker, as if she thought he was
      mad;—Ellen cast a look of deep indignation on the individual who had produced this
      excitement;—and Katherine started on her seat, exclaiming, "What have you done, Mr. Banks?
      Mrs. Bennet is fainting!"  
  This was really the case—such an effect did the sudden display of the coffin and the cool
      demand of patronage made by the undertaker, produce upon one whose mind had not yet quite
      recovered from the severe shock occasioned by the murder of her sister.  
  "Water, Katherine!—quick!" exclaimed the farmer, hastening towards his wife.  
  Kate instantly hurried from the room to fetch water; while Ellen, on her part, proffered the
      necessary attentions to the fainting woman.  
  Mr. Banks was thus for a moment forgotten; and this was exactly the condition of things that
      suited his purpose. Hastily thrusting the model coffin into his pocket, he seized his hat and
      hurried from the parlour, closing the door behind him.  
  In the passage he met Kate, who was hastening back to the room, with a jug of water in her
      hand.  
  "One moment—only one moment—  as you value the memory of your deceased
      mother  ,"—whispered Banks, speaking more rapidly and with less whining affectation than he
      had done for many years. "Take this note—read it in private—its contents deeply concern you
      and your   blessed defunct parent  . If you breathe a word concerning it to a soul
         you will for ever lose the opportunity of knowing who was your father  ."  
  Banks thrust a note into the girl's hand, and hastily left the house.  
  The words which he had uttered, produced—as might naturally be supposed—so strange an effect
      upon Katherine,—that sudden allusion to her mother took her so much by surprise,—and then that
      mysterious mention of her father increased her bewilderment to such an extent, that she
      mechanically grasped the note with a mixture of awe and gratitude, and, prompted by the same
      impulses, thrust it into the bosom of her dress.  
  All this was the work of scarcely a quarter of a minute; and the moment she had thus
      received and concealed the note, she re-entered the parlour, where the aid of the fresh water
      soon brought Mrs. Bennet to herself.  
  "Where is that scoundrel?" cried the farmer, now finding leisure to think of the cause of
      his wife's sudden indisposition.  
  "He is gone," returned Katherine.  
  Then, seating herself near the window, the young girl fell into a profound reverie.  
  "Gone!" ejaculated Bennet. "But it is better that he should have gone—or I might be tempted
      to do him a mischief."  
  "That man came hither with some sinister design," said Ellen. "From the first moment of his
      appearance, my suspicions associated his visit with the adventure of the morning."  
  "But what object could he have?" cried the farmer. "He seemed only anxious to intrude
      himself as long as possible."  
  "Perhaps he was waiting for an opportunity to speak to Katherine alone," observed Ellen. "He
      certainly appeared to be talking against time."  
  from her seat, and advancing towards those whom she thus addressed; "that man
         did   desire to speak to me alone—and he succeeded in his object. Pardon me if for a
      few moments I hesitated whether to obey his solemn injunction of silence, or to communicate
      the incident to you who wish me well. But the words which he spoke, and the earnestness of his
      manner, bewildered me. It however only required a short interval of sober reflection to teach
      me my duty."  
  Katherine then repeated the words that Banks had whispered in her ears, and produced the
      note which he had thrust into her hand.  
  "You have acted prudently in revealing these particulars, dear Kate," said Ellen. "A man who
      is compelled to effect his purposes by such low devices as those employed by him who has just
      left us, cannot mean well."  
  "Let us hear the contents of the letter," cried Farmer Bennet: "we may then, perhaps, see
      more clearly into the mystery."  
  "Read it, Ellen," said Kate. "I must confess to a profound curiosity to become acquainted
      with its contents."  
  Ellen accordingly opened the note, and read as follows:—  
  
  "Silence and secrecy,—if you respect the memory of your deceased mother! Be not deluded by
       the advice of Miss Monroe, who has her own reasons for prejudicing you against me. I am well
       acquainted with all the particulars of your birth:—I can impart facts that it behoves you to
       learn. You will bitterly repent any distrust in this matter. Have you no inclination to hear
       more concerning your mother's history than you can possibly now know? would you not go far,
       and sacrifice much, to glean something with regard to   your father  ? This evening—at
       seven precisely—I shall be at the foot of the hill where I met you just now. If you come
       alone, you will learn much that nearly and deeply concerns you: if you appear accompanied by
       a soul, my lips will remain sealed.  
    "THE FEMALE YOU SAW JUST NOW."  
    
  "I have so far my own reasons for counselling you against that wicked woman," said Ellen,
      indignantly, "inasmuch as I would save you from danger. But if you really believe that there
      can be any thing serious in this promise of important communications, I should advise you to
      meet that female—for precautions can be adopted to protect you from a distance."  
  Katherine glanced inquiringly towards the farmer.  
  "I see that you are anxious to meet this woman, Kate," said he, after a pause; "and it is
      natural. She promises communications on subjects that cannot be otherwise than dear to you.
      Miss Monroe and I can keep watch at a distance; and on the slightest elevation of voice on
      your part, we will hasten to your assistance."  
  This project was approved of even by the timid Mrs. Bennet; and Katherine Wilmot anxiously
      awaited the coming of the appointed hour.  
  
  CHAPTER CXCIX.   THE ORPHAN'S FILIAL LOVE.  
  The evening was calm, fresh, and dry: the heavens were covered with stars; and objects were
      visible at a considerable distance.  
  A few minutes before the wished-for hour, Katherine, Ellen, and the farmer reached the hill
      at the foot of which was the place of appointment.  
  Then Kate left them and proceeded alone, while her two friends hastened by a circuitous
      route to gain a clump of trees which would enable them to remain concealed within a distance
      of fifty yards of the spot where Kate was to meet the old woman.  
  The young girl pursued her way—her heart palpitating with varied emotions,—vague alarm,
      exalted hope, and all the re-awakened convictions of her orphan state.  
  She reached the foot of the hill, and in a few minutes beheld a human form emerging, as it
      were, from the obscurity at a distance—the dim outline gradually defining itself into a
      positive shape, and at length showing the figure of the old woman whom she had seen in the
      morning.  
  "You have done well to obey my summons, Miss," said the hag, as she approached the timid and
      trembling girl. "But let me look well on your countenance—let me be satisfied that it is
      indeed Katherine Wilmot."  
  Then Kate turned towards the moon, and parted the light chesnut hair: which clustered around
      her countenance; so that a pure flood of silvery lustre streamed on all the features of that
      sweetly interesting face—a sight too hallowed for the foul-souled harridan to gaze upon!  
  It was as if the veil of the Holy of Holies, in the Jewish temple, were lifted before some
      being fresh from the grossest pollutions of the world.  
  "Yes—I am satisfied!" murmured the hag. "You are Katherine Wilmot—the Katherine whom I saw
      and recognised this morning. I feared lest your artful friend, Ellen Monroe, less timid than
      yourself, might have come to play your part."  
  "Wherefore should you speak ill of Miss Monroe?" inquired Katherine, mildly. "Malicious
      allusions to my friends will not serve as a passport to my confidence."  
  "Well, well," said the hag, "we will speak no more on that subject. It was for other
      purposes that I sought this interview. Tell me, Miss—do you remember your mother?"  
  there have been times, too," continued Kate, tears trickling down her cheeks,
      "when it appeared to me, that I could remember the fervent tenderness with which my mother
      clasped me in her arms—fondled me—played with me—did all she could to make me laugh—and then
      wept bitterly, because my infantine joy was so exuberant! Yes—these and many other things of
      the same kind have I pondered on and treasured up as holy memories of the past;—and then the
      dread thought has suddenly flashed to my brain, that I have been merely worshipping the images
      of my own fond creation. At such times, I have gone down upon my knees—I have prayed that
      these ideas might really be reflections of the long-gone truth,—bright reflections which had
      been cast in the mirror of my mind during the days of my infancy! Oh! it would grieve me
      sadly—it would wring my soul with anguish—it would fill my heart with desolation, were I to be
      led to the fearful conviction that all those pleasing-painful glimpses of my mother's presence
      and my mother's love are not the reminiscences of reality, but the creations of a fond and
      credulous imagination."  
  "Your memory has not deceived you, Miss," said the old woman. "Your mother fondled and
      caressed you—smiled and wept over you, in the manner you have described."  
  "Oh! thank you—thank you for that assurance!" exclaimed Katherine, forgetting, in the
      enthusiasm of her filial, but orphan, love, all her late repugnance to that old woman: "again,
      I say, thank you! You know not the consolation you have imparted to me! Oh! were it possible
      to recall from the tomb that dear mother who fondled and caressed me—smiled and wept over me,
      I would give all the remainder of my life for one day of her presence here—one day of her
      love! When I think that she is really gone for ever—that no tears and no prayers can bring her
      back—ah! it seems as if there were an anguish in my heart which no human sympathy can ever
      soothe. But you knew my mother, then?" added Kate, suddenly; "you knew her—did you not? Oh!
      tell me of her: I could never weary of hearing you speak of her."  
  "Yes—I knew your mother well," was the answer: "I knew her before you were born."  
  "And was she happy?" demanded Katherine, trembling at the question she thus put, for fear
      the reply should not be as she would wish it.  
  "She knew happiness—and she was also acquainted with sorrow," said the hag: "but that is the
      lot of us all—that is the lot of us all!"  
  "Poor mother!" murmured the young girl, with a profound sob: "it is then true that, in my
      infancy, I saw her weep as well as smile! Wherefore was she unhappy? Was she betrayed and
      neglected? But, oh! I tremble to ask those questions, which—"  
  "To explain the cause of her sorrows would be to tell you all her history," answered the old
      woman; "and, ere I can do that, I have some questions to ask you, and—and some conditions
      to—to propose."  
  The hag hesitated:—yes, even   she  , with her soul so hardened in the tan-pits of
      vice, as to be on all other occasions proof against the dews of sympathy,—even   she  
      hesitated, as if softened by the ingenuous and holy outpourings of that young orphan's filial
      love.  
  "Speak—say quickly what you require of me," exclaimed Katherine; "and hasten to tell me of
      my parents—for in your letter you spoke of both my father and my mother."  
  As Katherine entertained not the slightest recollection of her father, all her thoughts had
      ever been fixed on the memory of her mother;—but when she coupled the two names together—when
      she found her lips pronouncing the sacred denominations of   father   and   mother  
      in the same breath, there arose in her soul such varied and overpowering emotions that she
      dissolved into a violent agony of weeping.  
  But that efflux of tears relieved the surcharged heart of the orphan; and, composing herself
      as quickly as she could, she exclaimed, "Speak, good woman—name your conditions: I am rich—and
      they shall be complied with,—so that you hasten to tell me of my parents!"  
  "Did your mother leave no papers behind her—no letters—no private documents of any kind?"
      inquired the old hag.  
  "Nothing,—nothing save the fragment of a note which she commenced when in a dying state, and
      which death did not permit her to finish," answered Katherine.  
  "And that fragment—did it suggest no trace—"  
  "Stay—I will repeat its contents to you," exclaimed Katherine: "the words are indelibly
      fixed upon my memory——Oh! how were it possible that I could ever forget them? Those words ran
       thus:—'  Should my own gloomy presages prove true, and the warning of my medical attendant
       be well founded,—if, in a word, the hand of death be already extended to snatch me away thus
       in the prime of life, while my darling child is——  :' there," continued Katherine, "is a
      blank, occasioned—alas! by the tears of my poor mother! Two or three lines are thus
      obliterated; and then appears a short—disjointed—but a most mysterious portion of a sentence,
      written thus:—'  and inform Mr. Markham, whose abode is——  .' There's not another word on
      the paper!" added the orphan.  
  "Markham—Markham!" repeated the hag, as if sorely troubled by some reminiscence; "she
      mentioned the name of Markham in the letter she wrote on her death-bed? Young lady, did you
      ever hear more of that Mr. Markham?"  
  "Inquiries were instituted at my mother's death," replied Kate; "but the Mr. Markham alluded
      to in the note could not be discovered. The name—the very name, however, seems to be of good
      omen to me; for one of that name,—who is now a noble of exalted rank, and the commander of a
      mighty army in a foreign land,—has been my best friend—my benefactor—my saviour. Yes—it is to
      Richard Markham——"  
  "Ah! now I comprehend the cause of your intimacy with Miss Monroe," said the hag, hastily:
      "she resides with her father at the house of Mr. Richard Markham. And so," she continued in a
      musing tone,—"and so that same Mr. Richard Markham is your friend—your benefactor?"  
  "Oh! what should I have been without him?" ejaculated Katherine. "When I was involved in
      that fearful situation, of which you have no doubt heard,   he   was the only one who
      came to me and said, '  I believe you to be innocent  entangled. He employed an active agent to collect evidence in my favour; and the
      measures which he adopted led to the results which must be known to you."  
  "It is, then, as I thought," said the old woman, scarcely able to subdue a chuckle of
      delight. "You know but little concerning your mother—and nothing relative to your father."  
  "And it is to receive precious communications on those points that I have met you now,"
      exclaimed Katherine. "Let us lose no more time—my friends will grow uneasy at my prolonged
      absence! Speak—in the name of heaven, speak on a subject so near and dear to my heart."  
  "Listen attentively, young miss, to what I am about to say—listen attentively," returned the
      hag. "Now do not be alarmed at my words: you will see that I am disposed to act well towards
      you. The man who was with me this morning—," and here the old woman cast a rapid glance
      around, and lowered her voice to a whisper,—"that man is a bad one, and he knows I am
      acquainted with all that concerns your parentage. He is avaricious, and desires to turn my
      knowledge to a good account."  
  "I understand you," said Katherine: "he requires money. But are you influenced by him?"  
  "I cannot explain all that, Miss: attend to what I choose to tell you—or   may   tell
      you—and you will act wisely," returned the old woman. "He is a desperate man—and I dare not
      offend him. He wants money; and money he must have—money he must have!"  
  "How much will satisfy him?" asked Katherine. "And if I procure the sum that he needs, will
      you then tell me all you know in connexion with my parents?"  
  "Wait a moment—wait a moment, Miss," said the hag. "I am but a
      poor—miserable—wretched—oppressed—starving creature myself——"  
  "Again I understand you," interrupted Katherine, unable to subdue a tone expressive of
      contempt. "You declare yourself to be the possessor of a secret which nearly and dearly
      concerns me; and you intend to barter it for gold? But if I meet your demands in all
      respects,—if I satisfy that man who exercises such influence over you, and if I reward
      yourself,—what security can you give me that you are really acquainted with those particulars
      which you offer to communicate? what guarantee can you show that this first concession on my
      part will not be followed by increased demands on yours?"  
  "I will convince you of my good faith," was the old woman's ready reply. "Give me
      wherewithal to satisfy that man; and the reward you intend for me need not be bestowed until I
      have told you all I know."  
  "How much will that man require?" asked Katherine, wearied by this mercenary trading in
      matters which to her appeared so sacred.  
  "Give him a hundred pounds:—you are rich and can well afford it—for report says that you
      inherited the fortune of Reginald Tracy," exclaimed the hag.  
  "And for yourself?" said Kate, impatiently.  
  "Alack! I am a poor, starving old creature," was the answer; "I am miserable—very miserable!
      Give me wherewith to make my few remaining days happy—as I shall be able to show you great
      sources of comfort in the news I have to impart."  
  "Listen, now, to me," said Kate, after a moment's hesitation. "I will give you that sum of
      one hundred pounds to enable you to satisfy the man of whom you speak; and, afterwards—if your
      communications should really and truly prove a source of comfort to me—I will reward you with
      a liberality surpassing your most sanguine expectations. But, alas! some delay must take place
      ere I can procure the funds from the solicitor who has my affairs in his charge; and, oh! I
      shall know no peace until your lips reveal those secrets which are to prove such sources of
      comfort to me."  
  There was a temporary pause:—the old woman seemed to be reflecting upon the orphan's words;
      and the young girl herself was rapidly conjecturing of what nature the promised revelations
      could be. But how vain were all her attempts to assign a satisfactory solution to that enigma
      which the hag, like some horrible sphynx, had set before her!  
  During this prolonged interview the early loveliness of the evening had yielded to one of
      those sudden variations peculiar to our island-climate at that season of the year:—the sky had
      become overcast—the moon no longer poured forth a flood of sweet silver lustre to light up the
      innocent countenance of the maiden, or to mock with its chaste halo the wrinkled expression of
      the foul hag.  
  "But perhaps your solicitor may refuse you the advances which you need?" said the old woman
      at length.  
  "No: he will not cast an obstacle in the way of aught which is to contribute to my
      happiness," answered Katherine. "I have seen him but twice, and, inexperienced as I am in the
      ways of life, I feel confident that he possesses a kind and generous heart. Oh! if Richard—I
      mean, the Marquis of Estella—were in England now, I should not be compelled to wait many hours
      in suspense for the want of this money which you require."  
  "The Marquis of Estella!" exclaimed the hag, in astonishment: "who is he? and what connexion
      can he have with you?"  
  "Have you not heard or read the news which have doubtless appeared in all the London
      journals?" inquired Katherine;—"those glorious news——"  
  "Alack! dear Miss—I never read a newspaper," said the hag.  
  "Then you are ignorant that the Richard Markham of whom we have been speaking, is a great
      noble—a peer of a foreign realm,—that the coronet of a Marquis has been conferred upon him for
      his gallant deeds——"  
  "Well-a-day! this world sees strange ups and downs!" interrupted the hag. "Ah! Miss—lose no
      time in satisfying that man who was with me this morning, and I will tell you a secret that
      will be well worth all the gold you will have to give for its purchase. But what was that
      noise? did you not hear something?"  
  "It seemed to me that there was a rustling along the path," replied Katherine, in a hasty
      and timid whisper. "Oh! you would not do me any harm—you have not been deceiving me? My God!
      how cruel would it be to lead the orphan into danger, by the allurements of fond hopes
      respecting the memory of her parents!"  
  "Silence, Miss—listen!" said the hag, in a subdued but earnest tone: "I mean you no
      harm."  
  of the breeze which had sprung up within the last few minutes.  
  "It is nothing," observed the old woman. "But why should you mistrust me?"  
  "Pardon me if I wrong you," returned Kate:—"you are a stranger to me—and, although you may
      mean to serve me, your proceedings are conducted with so much mystery—so much secrecy—that I
      must be forgiven if vague suspicions——"  
  "I know it—I know it," interrupted the old woman; and after a short pause, she added, "Yes—I
      will ensure your confidence, Miss; and then you will understand my sincerity. That man who was
      with me this morning discovered your place of abode at my desire. He demanded to be present at
      our interview but I refused—for reasons of my own. I assured him I would speak to you alone,
      or not at all. I was therefore compelled, this morning, in his presence, to insist on having
      none by to overhear the business that made me seek you; and the same reason forced me to
      stipulate that you should meet me this evening unaccompanied by any of your friends. For if I
      had permitted one to be present at our interview, then there was no reason to exclude another;
      and that man might have insisted on being a witness as well as any companion of yours."  
  "If that be the only reason for this mystery," observed Katherine, considerably relieved by
      the old woman's explanation, "you cannot object to Miss Monroe accompanying me on the next
      occasion of our meeting."  
  "No," answered the old woman; "that may not be, for the man who is to be satisfied with
      money will watch me at a distance when we meet again. But, afterwards—at any future interview
      that may be necessary—Miss Monroe may accompany you."  
  "I understand you," said Kate. "To-morrow evening I will meet you again—here—and at the same
      hour. I shall then doubtless be prepared to give you the amount necessary to satisfy that
      man's avarice; and his interference will be disposed of. It will afterwards remain for
         you   to satisfy   me  —and for   me   to reward   you  ."  
  "Agreed, young lady—agreed!" answered the old woman. "We have now no more to say—except,"
      she added, as a sudden thought struck her,—"except that, should the man insist on speaking to
      you to-morrow evening, you need not tell him that you have any intention of bestowing a
      separate recompense on me."  
  "I hope that he will not dare to approach me," said Katherine, indignantly; "and, were he to
      force his disagreeable presence upon me, I should scarcely permit myself to be catechised by
      him."  
  "'Tis well, Miss," returned the hag, apparently well pleased with the resolute manner of the
      young orphan.  
  They then separated.  
  The old woman went one way; and Katherine proceeded direct to the clump of trees where Ellen
      and the farmer were concealed;—for it was now so dark that there was no fear of the direction
      she took being observed.  
  It may be naturally supposed that Ellen and Mr. Bennet were deeply anxious to be made
      acquainted with the particulars of an interview concerning which they had some few
      misgivings.  
  On the return of the trio to the farm-house, they found Mrs. Bennet very uneasy on Kate's
      account. The appearance of the young maiden reassured the good-hearted woman; and Katherine
      then gave a detailed account of all that had passed between herself and the hag.  
  The impression produced was, that there was really a legitimate foundation for the old
      woman's proceedings, and that she was actually possessed of secrets touching Kate's parentage.
      The agreement that the recompense was only to be awarded to her after she had made the
      promised communications, was considered a proof of good faith; and Kate's promise to supply
      the sum demanded in the first instance to satisfy the avarice of the Resurrection Man, met
      with the approval of her friends.  
  "To-morrow, then," said Kate, "I must repair to London, and procure the necessary funds from
      Mr. Wharton. You will accompany me, Ellen?"  
  "That journey is not requisite," observed the farmer. "Mr. Wharton would demand an
      explanation of the business for which the money is intended; and he would only view it with
      the calm and severe eye of a lawyer. He might even go so far as to insist upon having those
      persons arrested as extortioners. He might not fully appreciate your filial anxiety, Kate, to
      risk every chance to know more of the authors of your being. I can well comprehend your
      feelings; and, after all, the venture is but a hundred pounds—for the old woman is to make her
      revelations before she receives a recompense. No—you shall say nothing to Mr. Wharton on the
      subject. I am going to London to-morrow; and on my return I will supply you with the sum
      required."  
  It is needless to say that Katherine expressed her gratitude to Mr. Bennet for his goodness;
      and Ellen readily promised to stay at the farm for a day or two longer, until the pending
      mysteries should be cleared up. Mr. Bennet moreover undertook to call at Markham Place, with a
      note from Ellen to relieve Mr. Monroe of any anxiety which he might feel on her account, as
      her absence from home would be protracted beyond the time originally contemplated.  
  
  CHAPTER CC.   A MAIDEN'S LOVE.  
  The two young ladies had now retired to the bed-chamber which Kate occupied at the farm, and
      which Ellen shared with her during her visit.  
  The respective characters of those two charming creatures were then incidentally contrasted
      and powerfully set forth, each in its peculiar phase, by means of occurrences apparently
      trivial to a degree, but which were nevertheless significant in the eyes of those who closely
      observed the nature of the human mind.  
  While Ellen was disrobing herself, she stood, in all the pride of her glorious beauty,
      before the mirror; in the reflection of which she also arranged her long, luxuriant hair
      previously to retiring to rest.  
  But Katherine, in the semi-obscurity of the remotest corner, laid aside her vestment; nor
      did she once think of approaching the glass.  
  Whence arose this discrepancy,—this pride on the one hand, and this bashfulness on the
      other?  
  her to appreciate the extent of her almost matchless charms:—her lovely
      countenance had served as a copy, and her exquisitely modelled form as a pattern for artists
      and sculptors;—during her brief dramatic career, she had been the object of unceasing
      adulation;—and when she forced Greenwood to espouse her, the splendour of her beauty had
      disarmed him of the resentment which he would otherwise have experienced in being compelled to
      sacrifice for her all his hopes of a brilliant matrimonial alliance. Hers was the pride of a
      loveliness which had produced her bread in the hour of her bitter need,—which was perpetuated
      in great works of art,—which had elicited the heart-felt admiration of many suitors of rank
      and name,—and which was still in all the freshness of health and youth. Still that pride was
      never obtrusive—not even conspicuous; for it was attempered by a natural generosity, an innate
      loftiness of soul which rendered her as adorable for her disposition as she was desirable for
      her beauty.  
  Katherine had long languished in a condition which compelled her to retire from observation.
      While she dwelt with the late executioner, she was glad to be able to shroud herself from
      public view. She was always neat and cleanly from principle, but not from pride. The
      germinations of self-complacency had been checked in their nascent state, though not
      completely obliterated; and now, if they were slightly expanding in the genial atmosphere of
      the improved circumstances which surrounded her, it was with a legitimate growth, such as no
      female mind should remain unacquainted with. For a certain degree of proper pride is necessary
      to woman,—to preserve her self-esteem, and to maintain her soul so happily poised that it may
      not fall into over-weening confidence on the one side, nor into an awkward and repulsive
      reserve on the other.  
  That chamber-scene would have made a fine and deeply interesting subject for the pencil of
      the artist, who would have delighted to shadow forth the variety of the female character,—here
      the glorious loveliness of the wife who dared not avow that sacred name,—there the retiring
      beauty of the young virgin.  
  But Katherine had not altogether escaped the influence of that blind deity who exercises so
      important a control over the destinies of us mortals.  
  How this happened we must leave her to describe in her own artless manner.  
  "I have been thinking, dear Kate," said Ellen, as she stood combing her long and silky hair,
      on which a lamp's reflection in the mirror shed a bright glory,—"I have been thinking that
      this is a dull and lonely place for you. Mr. and Mrs. Bennet are very kind and amiable people;
      but it will not be suitable for one whose worldly prospects are so good as yours, to remain in
      this solitude. You are literally buried here! I am almost inclined to take you with me to
      Markham Place for a short time, when the business with that old woman is decided. I am sure
      Richard would be pleased with such an arrangement."  
  "I should like to be with you, Ellen," was the reply: "but—for the present—I must remain
      here," added Katherine, with some little hesitation.  
  "Oh! no—you must come with me to Markham Place," exclaimed Ellen; "and the change of scene
      will please you. Besides—I have a secret to tell you, Kate."  
  "A secret!" repeated the maiden.  
  "Yes—a secret that will surprise you," continued Ellen. "I shall reveal it to you now; but
      you must not mention it to any one here—for particular reasons which I cannot explain to you
      at present. What should you think if I were to tell you that I am married?"  
  "You!—married!" exclaimed Katherine. "Then why are you still called Miss Monroe?"  
  "There are certain circumstances which compel me to keep my marriage a secret. When you come
      to Markham Place—as you must—you will see my father; but never in his presence, nor in that of
      Richard when he returns home, may you speak of me as a wife. And now do you know why I have
      told you this? Because, as I am determined that you shall come and pass at least a few days
      with me you will see my child——"  
  "Oh! Ellen, are you indeed a mother?" cried Katherine. "Are you not devotedly attached to
      your child? do you not fondle—play with it?"  
  "I am never wearied of its little company," answered Ellen. "It is a boy, and named after
      our mutual benefactor Richard. And now you know my secret. But tell me, Kate, wherefore you
      wish to remain pent up in this secluded dwelling? Has some happy youth in the neighbourhood
      touched your heart? You do not answer me. I cannot see you where you are; but I'll wager that
      you are blushing. Oh! if there be any truth in my suspicion, let it be revelation for
      revelation. We are friends—and you may confide in me."  
  "I know not how to answer you, Ellen;—and yet——"  
  "And yet you   have   a secret," returned the young wife, laughing; "oh! yes—you
         have   a secret—and you must make me your confidant."  
  "I am willing to tell you all that relates to this foolish affair," said Katherine; "but
      that   all   is very little."  
  And she hesitated,—suffused with blushes even in the nook whither Ellen's eyes were not
      directed!  
  "Nay, continue," exclaimed Ellen. "I perceive that you are about to interest me with the
      commencement of a charming little love-tale. Seriously speaking, Kate—you will lose nothing by
      entrusting your secret to one who may be enabled to give you some useful counsel in a matter
      which is of far greater moment than young persons of our sex are induced to believe?"  
  "I will conceal nothing from you, Ellen," returned Katherine, in a low and timid tone. "It
      was only at the commencement of last week that I was rambling in the neighbourhood—on as fine
      a day as this one has been—when I met a young gentleman, who was crossing the same field as
      myself, but in an opposite direction. The path was very narrow; and he stood on one side to
      allow me to pass. I bowed in acknowledgment of his politeness, and he raised his hat. The
      glance that I threw upon him was of course only momentary; and I passed on. I thought no more
      of the incident——"  
  "He is doubtless very handsome," said Ellen, laughing. "All heroes of such romantic
      adventures are."  
  "Nay—hear me to the end," continued Katherine; "for since I have begun this silly tale, I
      may as well terminate it. The following day was fine; and I walked out again—as indeed I
      always do, when the weather will permit. I was proceeding through the same field——"  
  "The same field," observed Ellen slily.  
  "Oh! I can assure you, my dear friend, that you do me an injustice by the suspicion which
      your words imply," exclaimed Katherine. "I had totally forgotten the trifling incident of the
      preceding day; but I chose that path,—it was the same which we took this morning,—because it
      was dry and hard. To my surprise I again met that gentleman; and when he made way as before,
      to let me pass, he looked at me with an attention not rude, but still earnest. Our eyes
      met—and I passed hastily on. I felt myself blushing—I knew not why—to the very verge of my
      forehead. And yet I had done no wrong. I had glanced towards him as I acknowledged his
      politeness in stepping aside to allow me to pass; and it was by accident—at least on my
      part—that our eyes thus met. When I became more composed, I was angry at having been annoyed
      with myself. I then found myself involuntarily reflecting upon the handsome countenance,—for
      he   is   handsome, Ellen,—of which I had only so hasty a glimpse. I must admit that I
      thought of him more than once during the remainder of that day."  
  "Love at second sight, we must denominate it," observed Ellen, with a smile. "I will hazard
      a guess that the next day was fine,—for the weather is usually favourable in such
      circumstances,—and that you unwittingly found yourself rambling in the same path."  
  "Ah! Ellen, I am afraid that I was wrong—but all happened as you have described," said Kate,
      in a soft and melancholy tone; "and I obeyed some impulse for which I could not account. I
      candidly confess that I wondered, as I walked along, whether   he   would be there again;
      and when I did not perceive him, I experienced a sentiment of vexation. At length he appeared
      at the extremity of the field—he drew near—nearer and nearer. I felt ashamed of myself: it
      suddenly struck me that he must suppose I came thither on purpose to see him again. I never
      thought so little of myself—no, not even when I was pointed at as the presumed relative of an
      executioner. I turned abruptly round, and began to retrace my way towards the farm. I reached
      the low stile on the brow of the hill: at that moment I heard steps behind me. I cannot
      describe the sensations which I then experienced—a few short seconds of pleasing, painful
      suspense. Ere a minute had elapsed, the stranger stood by my side; and with a low bow he
      extended his hand to assist me in crossing the barrier. My head seemed to swim round; and I
      mechanically gave him my hand. He held it but for an instant as I passed into the next
      field;—and yet he pressed it gently—very gently;—still he pressed it! I know not whether I
      bowed or hurried abruptly on—I was so confused!"  
  "And during the remainder of that day you pondered on the incident," observed Ellen.  
  "Oh! how well you seem to divine all my thoughts—all my emotions!" exclaimed Katherine.  
  "Love has the same emblems—the same symbols, throughout the world," answered Ellen; "and it
      also has the same unvarying worship. Of the true nature of the great God there are many
      conflicting opinions; and different nations offer up their adoration in different manners. But
      to that blind deity whom we call Love, there is only one incense—and that is common to all
      humanity!"  
  "Then it was not wrong on my part to experience those emotions which I have explained to
      you?" said Katherine, with the most amiable   naïveté  .  
  "Wrong, dearest girl! oh, no!" exclaimed Ellen. "That heart must be a cold—a callous—a
      worldly-minded one, which never feels those most beautiful and holy of all sympathies! But go
      on with your narrative, Kate; for I feel convinced that you have seen your handsome lover
      since the day mentioned."  
  "I will tell you how we met again," said Katherine. "On the following day I did not stir
      abroad: I wished to take my usual ramble—but I feared that I should be doing wrong to incur
      the chance of meeting   him   again. As I was sitting at the parlour window, he passed. I
      was so taken by surprise—he appeared so unexpectedly,—ah! no—I am deceiving myself—I am
      deceiving you;—he came not altogether unexpectedly—for I had found myself wondering more than
      once whether he would again revisit this neighbourhood. He passed the window, then—as I have
      said; and I did not turn away until it was too late. He saw me—he seemed pleased: he bowed—and
      I slightly responded to his salutation. Then I retreated from the window, and did not approach
      it again during the rest of that day. The next day was wet and gloomy; and I felt persuaded
      that I should not see him. Will you blame me if I say that I was vexed at this circumstance?
      would you believe me if I declared that I treated it with indifference? But, ah! my annoyance
      was soon dissipated:—he passed the house at the same hour as on the preceding day! He was
      wrapped in a long military cloak; and when he saw me, he bowed with the same courtesy as
      heretofore;—but methought he smiled, as if with satisfaction at seeing me. And now you will
      say that I am a vain and foolish girl;—but, dearest Ellen, I an faithfully detailing to you
      all that occurred, and all the emotions I have experienced."  
  "Proceed, Katherine," said Ellen. "I become deeply interested in your narrative."  
  "The next day was fine once more; and I felt indisposed for want of exercise," continued the
      maiden. "I accordingly walked out—but in another direction. How I trembled at the slightest
      sound which resembled a footstep! How my heart beat when a bird flew past me! But my alarms—if
      I can honestly so call them—were without foundation: I beheld not the stranger that day. On
      the ensuing one I walked out again in the same direction; and, lost in thought, I rambled to a
      considerable distance. But at length I turned homewards once more; and when in sight of the
      farm, I suddenly beheld the stranger advancing towards me across a field. He was pursuing no
      direct path:—my heart beat violently—for something told me that he was coming that way only on
      my account! In a few moments we met: he bowed—I returned his salutation;—he suddenly took my
      hand, and pressed it—I hastily withdrew it—and passed rapidly on."  
  "This mute declaration of love is truly romantic," said Ellen, laughing, as she threw
      herself, half undressed, into an easy chair, and began to unlace the boots which enclosed her
      pretty feet.  
  Katherine had emerged from her nook, and was sitting on the side of the bed which was
      farthest removed from Ellen; and there, veiling her blushes behind the curtain, the young
      maiden continued her artless narrative.  
  can even feel it now, when I think of it. Is not this very foolish, Ellen? But
      you wish me to tell you every thing; and therefore you must expect to be wearied with my
      frivolous details. The incident which I have just related made a profound impression upon me.
      The image of the stranger was constantly present to my memory throughout that day. I fancied
      that there was something sincere—and yet extremely respectful,—something fervent—and yet quite
      inoffensive,—in his manner towards me when he seized and pressed my hand. But I have forgotten
      to give you some idea of his appearance. He is young—tall—slight—and of a dark complexion. He
      seems to be of a foreign nation. His eyes are black and animated, and on his lip he wears a
      small moustache. His gait is elegant; and his manners are evidently those of a polished
      gentleman."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And his name?" said Ellen. "He has doubtless communicated that?"  
  "He has never spoken a word to me," answered Katherine, with the most ingenuous seriousness.
      "We have not exchanged a syllable. I think, indeed, that I have already been sufficiently
      imprudent in allowing him to touch my hand. Still I could not have prevented him—he took it so
      suddenly!"  
  "And you have not exchanged a syllable!" exclaimed Ellen. "But it is as well that matters
      have remained where they appear to be. I will, however, give you my advice presently. In the
      meantime, continue your narrative."  
  "I have little more to say," answered Katherine, with a sigh. "On the following morning I
      met him once more—that was three days ago; and he accosted me evidently with the intention of
      speaking. But I hurried on; and he stopped. When I was at some distance, I cast a rapid glance
      round: he was still standing where I had left him. He saw that I threw that hasty look behind
      me; for——but, no——I cannot tell you the indiscretion of which he was guilty. It pains me to
      think of it; and perhaps he himself is conscious of his impropriety, for I have not seen him
      since."  
  "What, in heaven's name, did he do?" asked Ellen, surprised by the thoughtful seriousness of
      her young friend's manner.  
  "Well—I must confess all! He kissed his hand to me."  
  "Were I not afraid of wounding your feelings, I should laugh immoderately, Kate," said
      Ellen. "Here was I on the tenter-hooks of expectation—awaiting some truly mortifying
      disclosure; and I find that the only fault which your swain has committed, is a delicate and
      mute declaration of his attachment. But to speak seriously once more. If you really entertain
      any sentiment of interest in behalf of this handsome stranger, you must allow time and
      circumstances to serve you. These romantic meetings, dear Katherine, are calculated to fill
      your young heart with hopes which may be cruelly disappointed. If he really experience a
      tender feeling towards you, he will find means to make it known in a more satisfactory, if not
      more intelligible manner. Then will be the proper time for your friends to ascertain who he
      is. For the present I cannot,—as I wish you well,—counsel you to incur the chance of meeting
      him in that wild way again. I am glad you have imparted this secret to me. It shall be sacred.
      But, oh! I am too intimately acquainted with the world to treat lightly or neglectfully a
      matter that may so nearly touch,—that does, perhaps, already to some extent concern,—your
      happiness; more than ever do I now desire that you should pass a few days with me at Markham
      Place. If your stranger really wishes to know more of you,—if his views be honourable, and his
      pretensions feasible, he will soon institute inquiries at the farm regarding you. Mr. Bennet
      will then know how to act. In the meantime there is no necessity to mention the affair to
      either him or his wife."  
  The tender interest of the subject had so completely absorbed all other ideas in the mind of
      Katherine, that—no longer under the restraint of the extreme bashfulness which had driven her
      into the obscure part of the chamber in order to lay aside her vesture—she had emerged from
      the concealment of the curtain, and gradually approached nearer and nearer towards Ellen,
      while the latter was affectionately offering her counsel.  
  The scene was now a most touching one.  
  In the large arm-chair reclined the young wife, her luxuriant hair, not yet arranged for
      repose, flowing in shining waves over her ivory shoulders, and forming a dark curtain behind
      her arching neck, the dazzling whiteness and graceful contour of which were thus enhanced with
      an effect truly enchanting;—while a stray curl of the glossy hair, detached from the mass
      behind, and more fortunate than its companions, fell on the glowing bosom which was without
      shame revealed in the sanctity of that chamber.  
  And, standing meekly before the young wife,—with downcast eyes and blushing cheeks,—was the
      young virgin,—her white arms supporting the loosened garments over her bosom in that sweet
      attitude of modesty which so many great masters have loved to delineate in their marble
      representations of female beauty.  
  It seemed as if Venus, the Queen of Love, were enthroned in the voluptuous negligence of the
      boudoir, and had suddenly assumed a demeanour befitting her sovereign sway, while she tutored
      one of her attendant Graces in some lesson whose importance demanded that unusual
      seriousness.  
  "And now, dearest Katherine," added Ellen, after a moment's pause, "I have given you the
      best advice which my humble capacity allows me to offer; and I think so well of you that I
      feel convinced of your readiness to follow it."  
  "I should be unworthy of your good opinion—I should despise myself, were I to hesitate a
      moment what course to pursue," returned Kate; and, yielding to the generous emotions of
      friendship, she threw herself on the bosom of her whom she had made the confidant of her young
      love.  
  "And you will consent to pass a short time with me at Markham Place?" said Ellen, embracing
      her affectionately.  
  "I will follow your counsel in all things, dear Ellen," replied the maiden, weeping from
      emotions of gratitude and love.  
  Human nature has no essence more pure,—the world knows nothing more chaste,—heaven has
      endowed the mortal heart with no feeling more holy, than the nascent affection of a young
      virgin's soul. The warmest language of the sunny south is too cold to shadow forth even a
      faint outline of that enthusiastic sentiment. And God has made the richest language poor in
      the same respect, because the depths of hearts that thrill with love's emotions are too sacred
      for the common contemplation. The musical voice of Love stirs the source of the sweetest
      thoughts within the human breast, and steals into the most profound recesses of the soul,
      touching chords which never vibrated before, and calling into gentle companionship delicious
      hopes till then unknown!  
  Yes—the light of a young maiden's first love breaks dimly but beautifully upon her as the
      silver lustre of a star glimmers through a thickly-woven bower; and the first blush that
      mantles her cheek, as she feels the primal influence, is faint and pure as that which a
      rose-leaf might cast upon marble. But how rapidly does that light grow stronger, and that
      flush deeper,—until the powerful effulgence of the one irradiates every corner of her heart,
      and the crimson glow of the other suffuses every feature of her countenance.  
  
  CHAPTER CCI.   THE HANDSOME STRANGER.—DISAPPOINTMENT.  
  On the ensuing morning Farmer Bennet departed early for London.  
  After breakfast, Ellen said, with a significant smile: "The weather is fine, Kate: let us
      take advantage of it. Your country air does me so much good."  
  Katherine blushed, and then smiled also; but she offered no objection to the proposed
      walk.  
  The toilette of the young ladies was soon complete; and they sallied forth on their little
      excursion.  
  "Mr. Bennet has promised to call at Markham Place," observed Ellen. "I have written a note
      to my father, stating that I shall return to-morrow, or next day at latest; and I have
      intimated my intention of bringing you with me. I most sincerely hope that some fresh tidings
      have been received from Richard."  
  "And in that wish I earnestly partake," said Katherine. "But wherefore do you choose this
      path?" she added in a tremulous tone, and with downcast eyes.  
  "Because it is the most pleasant," answered Ellen, laughing. "It seems, moreover,
      that your handsome stranger was determined to seek you in one direction, as well as in
      another; and if he be in the neighbourhood this morning, rest assured that he will see
      you—whichever way you may pursue. Love has as many eyes in this respect as Argus. I am with
      you, dear Kate—you have a companion; and there is no indiscretion in even taking this very
      path where you have on most occasions met your unknown. Besides, should he be here to-day, I
      am anxious to catch a glimpse of him. To-morrow or next day you will leave this vicinity of
      pleasant memories—at least for a time; and——"  
  "Ellen, Ellen!" murmured Kate, suddenly; and she caught her companion by the arm.  
  "Ah! I understand!—compose yourself, Katherine—compose yourself," was the rapid reply. "It
      would be improper to betray any emotion. See—he is approaching slowly;—in the name of heaven
      compose yourself!"  
  And, in effect, a handsome young man,—with a dark complexion, fine and expressive eyes, and
      a graceful figure,—was advancing in the opposite direction. But he came slowly, as if anxious
      to keep some favourite object as long in view as possible!  
  How the pulse of the maiden's young heart quickened, as she beheld her unknown lover
      approaching.  
  And now the handsome stranger came near:—and Katherine drew close to her companion, as the
      timid fawn relies for protection on the stately deer.  
  The look of the stranger was cast for a moment upon Ellen; but not the bright glance of her
      eye—nor the rich colouring of her cheeks, framed as they were in masses of glossy hair—nor
      that symmetry of swelling bust, delicate waist, and matchless proportions of a finely-moulded
      form,—not this assemblage of charms induced the stranger to dwell for more than an instant on
      Katherine's companion. No:—it was to Katherine herself that his eyes reverted with adoring
      glance; and though he gazed fixedly upon the retiring maiden, yet there was something so
      respectful in his manner, that it was impossible to take offence at it.  
  He made way for the two ladies, and raised his hat as they passed.  
  Katherine returned the salutation without turning her eyes towards him.  
  "Your stranger is not only handsome," observed Ellen, when they were at such a distance as
      to incur no danger of being overheard; "but he is also of an appearance so respectable—so
      superior,——I had almost said noble,——that I cannot for a moment suppose his intentions to be
      dishonourable. At the same time, why does he not address you? He might, without impropriety,
      have taken advantage of my presence to speak to you; and, to tell you the truth, it was to
      afford him such an opportunity that I brought you in this direction."  
  We need not record the conversation that ensued: the reader does not require to be informed
      that its principal topic was the love of the young maiden—a theme on which she was naturally
      pleased to speak, and in the discussion of which Ellen indulged her;—not, however, with the
      view of fanning the flame of incipient passion; but with the affectionate motive of warning
      her against the encouragement of hopes which might never be fulfilled.  
  The walk was prolonged until two o'clock, when the young ladies retraced their steps to the
      farm. Mr. Bennet had not yet returned from London: dinner was however served up. The fresh air
      had given Ellen an appetite; but Katherine ate little, and was somewhat pensive.  
  Indeed, the maiden had sufficient to engage the meditation of her young mind. The evident
      impression which the handsome stranger had made upon her, and the hope that evening would
      bring her the much-desired information relative to her parents, divided her thoughts.  
  But of what nature would the old woman's secrets prove? in what manner were they to be a
      source of comfort to her? It will be remembered that Smithers had made her acquainted with
      certain particulars relative to her mother; and the sad inference had been that Katherine was
      of illegitimate birth. Would the tendency of the old woman's communications be to clear up
      this mystery in a manner satisfactory to the young maiden? As yet all was doubt and
      uncertainty; and conjecture was vain!  
  It was about four o'clock when the farmer made his appearance.  
  He entered the parlour, where Ellen, Katharine, and Mrs. Bennet were sitting, with a
      countenance expressive of supreme satisfaction.  
  "I have glorious news for you, young ladies," he exclaimed; "and, indeed, all who know Mr.
      Markham——I beg his pardon, the Marquis——must be rejoiced."  
  "Oh! what of him?" ejaculated Ellen and Kate, as it were in one breath.  
  "Patience for a moment," said the farmer. "Here is a letter from Mr. Monroe to you,
      Miss,"—addressing Ellen; "and that will explain every thing yet known of the affair."  
  Ellen hastily tore open her father's note, and began to read its contents aloud:—  
  January 29th, 1841.  
  "You will be supremely delighted, dearest Ellen, to hear the joyful tidings which I am about
      to communicate. This morning's newspapers publish a   Telegraphic Despatch   from Toulon,
      stating that a grand and decisive battle took place beneath the walls of Montoni on the 23d.
      Richard was completely victorious. The Austrian army was routed with tremendous loss; the
      Grand Duke fled; and the capital was delivered. Our dear benefactor is safe. The steamer which
      conveyed these tidings to Toulon left Montoni in the afternoon of the 24th, at the moment when
      Richard was entering the city—as the Regent of Castelcicala!  
  "Nothing more is known at present; but this is enough not only to reassure us all—but to
      fill our hearts with joy. My blood glows in my veins, old as I am, when I think of Richard's
      grand achievements. To what a proud height has he raised himself—second only to a sovereign!
      As I looked forth from the casement ere now, and beheld the two trees on the hill-top, I could
      not avoid a sorrowful reflection concerning Eugene. What can have become of him? I——"  
  "Heavens! dearest Ellen, are you ill?" exclaimed Katherine, seeing that her friend suddenly
      turned ashy pale.  
  "No, Kate: it is nothing! The abruptness with which we have received these tidings——"  
  "Yes—you   are   unwell," persisted Katherine; and she hastened to procure water.  
  Ellen drank some; and the colour slowly returned to her cheeks.  
  "I am better now, Kate," she said. "Do you terminate the perusal of my father's letter."  
  Katherine, perceiving that her friend really seemed to have revived, read the
      remainder of the note in the following manner:—  
  "I fear that he will not be enabled to tell so glorious a tale as his younger brother,—even
      if the appointment be really kept on his part! But enough of that. You speak of bringing Miss
      Wilmot, to pass a few days at the Place. I entirely approve of the project, if the excellent
      people with whom she is living, and of whom Richard has spoken to us so highly, be willing to
      part with her.  
  "I must not forget to mention that poor Whittingham is nearly crazed with joy at Richard's
      success. You remember his extravagant but unfeigned manifestation of delight when we received
      the tidings of the battle of Abrantani and its results. Then the worthy fellow danced and
      capered madly, exclaiming, '  Master Richard a Markis!  ' all day long. But when I read
      him the Telegraphic Despatch this morning, he took his hat and kicked it all round the room,—a
      new hat too,—until it was battered into a state beyond redemption,—shouting all the time,
       '  Here's a glorious cataplasm!  '—(meaning 'catastrophe,' no doubt):—'  Master
       Richard a Markis, and a Regency! I'll get drunk to-night, sir: I haven't been intoxicated for
       many a year; but I'll get drunk to-night, in spite of all the Teetotalers in London! Thank
       God for this glorious cataplasm!  ' And he rushed out of the room to communicate the news
      in his own way to Marian. But conceive my surprise when I presently heard the report of
      fire-arms: I listened—a second report followed—a third—a fourth. I became alarmed, and
      hastened into the garden. There was Whittingham firing a salute with his old blunderbuss; and
      Marian's new plaid shawl was floating, by way of a banner, from the summit of a clothes' prop
      fixed in the ground. Poor Marian did not seem to relish the use to which her Sunday shawl was
      thus unceremoniously converted; but all the satisfaction she could obtain from Whittingham
      was, '  It's a glorious cataplasm! Master Richard's a Regency!  ' And away the old
      blunderbuss blazed again, until the salute was complete. I do really believe the
      excellent-hearted old man intends to illuminate the Place this evening; and I shall not
      interfere with the ebullition of his honest joy.  
  "I write this long letter while Mr. Bennet partakes of some refreshment.  
  "Trusting to see you and your young friend to-morrow or next day at latest, I am, dearest
      Ellen," &amp;c. &amp;c.  
  It is unnecessary to state that the news from Montoni diffused the most lively joy amongst
      the party assembled in the parlour of the farm-house.  
  Ellen speedily recovered her usual flow of excellent spirits, and expressed her sincere
      satisfaction at that remarkable elevation on the part of Richard which had excited the
      enthusiasm of her father.  
  Mr. and Mrs. Bennet offered no objection to the proposal that Kate should pay a visit to
      Markham Place: on the contrary, though grieved to part with her, they considered that change
      of scene could not do otherwise than benefit her.  
  And now the appointed hour for the meeting with the old woman drew near; and Mr. Bennet
      provided Kate with the necessary funds for her purpose.  
  Shortly before seven, the farmer (provided with a brace of loaded pistols) and Ellen
      repaired to the same hiding-place which they had occupied on the preceding evening; and, with
      a beating heart, Katherine hastened to the spot where she expected to encounter one who had
      promised to reveal secrets so nearly concerning her.  
  The old woman did not, however, make her appearance.  
  The minutes passed slowly away—and still she came not.  
  Katherine's anxiety was intense.  
  Half an hour had elapsed: still there was no sign of the hag.  
  The young maiden waited until past eight o'clock; and at length she suddenly perceived two
      persons advancing towards her at a little distance.  
  For a moment she felt afraid; but the farmer's voice speedily reassured her.  
  Ellen and he were alarmed at Katherine's prolonged absence, and had come to seek her.  
  Finding that the old woman had not made her appearance, they began to view the entire affair
      with some suspicion; and Kate was compelled to return with them to the farm—a prey to the most
      cruel disappointment.  
  "If the old woman was prevented, by any unforeseen circumstance, from meeting you," said the
      farmer, "she will communicate with you early to-morrow. Perhaps we may be favoured with
      another visit from her emissary, Mr. Banks; but should he come, I shall take good care that he
      treats us to a sight of no more model-coffins."  
  During the remainder of the evening Kate was pensive and melancholy; nor could all Ellen's
      affectionate endeavours wean her from her sorrowful thoughtfulness.  
  They retired to rest early; and Katherine rose next morning with the hope of receiving
      tidings from the old woman.  
  But hour after hour passed without gratifying her wish.  
  Ellen purposely delayed their departure for London, to afford a fair opportunity for the
      arrival of any intelligence which the old woman might forward; but three o'clock came, and
      still all was blank disappointment and mystery in respect to the affair.  
  Then Kate herself saw the inutility of tarrying longer; and, having taken an affectionate
      farewell of Mrs. Bennet, the young ladies were accompanied by the farmer to Hounslow. There
      they obtained a conveyance for the capital, and Mr. Bennet saw them depart in safety.  
  
  CHAPTER CCII.   THE PRINCESS ISABELLA.  
  We must now succinctly record a few incidents which occurred at the mansion of Prince
      Alberto in the vicinity of Richmond, from the period when Richard bade adieu to Isabella ere
      his departure for Castelcicala in the month of October, 1840, until the end of January,
      1841—that is, up to the date at which we have brought our narrative in the preceding
      chapter.  
  The Princess Isabella declared, at her farewell meeting with Richard, that wild hopes and
      exalted visions filled her imagination when she contemplated the enterprise on which her lover
      was about to embark. So well did she read the true character of our hero, and so elevated was
      her opinion of his high qualifications, that she felt persuaded he only required an
      opportunity to open for himself a grand and brilliant career.  
  Her boundless affection for Richard Markham aided her not only in fostering these
      convictions, but also in shadowing forth and defining the elements of a glorious success and
      rapid rise on the part of one to whom her first and undivided love was given.  
  But when she tore herself away from his last embrace,—when she breathed the
      mournful word "Farewell," and then separated from the generous, the high-minded, and handsome
      young man who possessed her heart,—oh! how acute was the anguish that filled her soul!  
  For some minutes—when he was no longer in sight—all her golden dreams and glorious visions
      fled from her imagination;—she strove to recall them, as a drowning person in the dark hour of
      night struggles to gain the surface of the waters once more to catch another glimpse of the
      bright stars above;—but hope seemed to have yielded to blank despair.  
  The Princess, however, possessed a firm mind; and when the primal burst of anguish was over,
      she wrestled with her gloomy imaginings, until she gradually triumphed over their mournful
      influence.  
  Having purposely prolonged her walk homewards, in order to compose herself, Isabella did not
      re-enter the mansion until she had collected her scattered thoughts and had wiped away the
      traces of her tears.  
  Her father had all along discountenanced the expedition to Castelcicala, so far as he was
      concerned; although he could not do otherwise than wish it success. Indeed, as he himself had
      intimated to General Grachia, he would no doubt have joined in it, had he been differently
      situated. It was therefore with feelings of admiration that the Prince had from the first
      heard of Markham's enthusiasm in the Constitutional cause: and at that period he frequently
      found himself dwelling attentively upon all the good points in Richard's character which had
      once made our hero so welcome a guest at the mansion.  
  As for Isabella's mother, this Princess was more than ever favourable towards Markham; for
      she saw in his present conduct nothing save a profound devotion to the cause of her
      illustrious husband, and a laudable ambition to render himself worthy of her daughter's
      love—that love which was no secret to the parents of the amiable girl!  
  When Isabella returned to the drawing-room after her interview with Richard, her still
      melancholy demeanour attracted the notice of her affectionate parents.  
  "Where have you been, Isabel?" inquired the Prince, eyeing her attentively.  
  "My dear father," was the instantaneous reply, "I went for my usual walk in the adjacent
      fields, and I met Mr. Markham."  
  "Ah!" exclaimed the Prince, a little impatiently.  
  "I do not pretend that it was accidentally on   his   part," continued Isabella, in a
      tone expressive of the pride of truth; "because he is the last person in the world to sanction
      duplicity of any kind. It was, however, accidental in reference to myself—for I knew not of
      his intention to seek an interview with me this day."  
  "But you have met?" said the Prince, in a softening voice, and with a manner which denoted
      how justly proud he was of the upright mind of his daughter.  
  "We have met, dear father," answered Isabel, wiping away a tear; "and—we have
      separated—perhaps," she added in a faltering tone, "never to meet again. Oh! be not angry with
         him  —nor with   me  , my dearest parents,—especially not with   him  !"  
  "No—we are not angry, my child," said the Princess of Castelcicala, hastily. "Indeed, for my
      part, I wish that Mr. Markham had come to wish us all farewell. But perhaps he will
      write——"  
  "I did not refuse his request on that subject," murmured Isabella, casting down her eyes and
      blushing: "Oh! no—I could not! And now, my dear parents, you know all. If I have done wrong, I
      am deeply grieved;—but my conscience tells me that I have not outraged the devotion and love
      that I owe to you."  
  The Prince made no reply: but the expression of his countenance was not severe; and the
      Princess of Castelcicala embraced her daughter affectionately.  
  From that time the mansion contained three anxious hearts; for the exiled family was deeply
      interested in the results of the expedition to Castelcicala.  
  Who, then, can depict the disappointment with which the tidings of the fatal affair of
      Ossore were received, at the end of November, in that dwelling?  
  The Prince and Princess perceived in the failure of the enterprise a deep blow to their own
      cause in the Duchy, inasmuch as it was calculated to afford the supporters of the Grand Duke
      an excuse for heaping opprobrium on the name of Alberto, whom they would point out as the
      instigator of the invasion;—and Isabella was overwhelmed with grief by the mystery which at
      that period enveloped the fate of Richard.  
  Several days of heart-breaking suspense elapsed: the colour forsook the maiden's cheek; and
      her countenance became expressive of a deep melancholy.  
  Nor was this terrible uncertainty concerning Richard's fate the only cause of affliction
      which she was now doomed to experience. Her father was so profoundly affected by the failure
      of the expedition, and the evils which he believed would result to his own interests in many
      respects, that he became ill, and was soon unable to leave his bed.  
  Then how assiduous was the poor girl to her parent, while her own heart was often well-nigh
      breaking! The Prince grew irritable and impatient, and even reproached his daughter for
      fretting on account of one who, as he declared, "had helped to hurry the Constitutional
      cause,—a cause that might have triumphed in time,—to a most ruinous catastrophe." But Isabella
      bore all this without a murmur; and as her father grew more harsh, her attentions towards him
      were redoubled. In her mother's kindness and sympathy the afflicted maiden found a
      consolation; but she could with difficulty bear up against the agony of suspense and alarm
      which she experienced on account of her lover.  
  At length,—about a week after the receipt of the fatal tidings connected with the battle of
      Ossore,—Whittingham called at the mansion, and placed in Isabella's hand a letter from
      Richard.  
  "He lives! he lives!" were the maiden's first words of reviving hope; "heaven be thanked—he
      lives!"  
  But Isabella's joy was speedily overclouded once more; for she saw, by the guarded manner in
      which he wrote and by the omission of his signature, that her lover was in danger.  
  Nevertheless—"where there is life, there is hope," as the proverb says; and, somewhat
      consoled by his conviction, she was less miserable than before!  
  And now came another tedious interval of suspense, the wretchedness of which was
      enhanced by the increasing indisposition of the Prince.  
  At length—at the expiration of about three weeks—the Princess Isabella received a letter
      from Signora Viviani, the nature of which, as already known to our readers, was not extremely
      well calculated to reassure the affectionate girl relative to her lover. It was true that she
      was informed of Richard's safe arrival at Pinalla, where he was in the society of kind
      friends; but vague and torturing fears were aroused by the fact that he himself had been
      unable to write to her.  
  Again was there a weary interval of silence; but this was suddenly broken in a manner
      calculated to re-awaken all the bright hopes which Isabella had once entertained relative to
      the future greatness of Richard Markham. On the 16th of January, the news of the glorious
      exploit at Estella reached the mansion of the exiled family in England; and inspired the young
      Princess with the most enthusiastic feelings of admiration towards him whom she loved so
      fondly, and of whom she had always thought so well.  
  "Oh! why am I bound to this bed of sickness?" exclaimed the Prince, when Signor Viviani's
      letter narrating that event was read to him. "Why am I not permitted to hasten to my native
      country, and take part with that gallant youth! No consideration of policy or delicacy should
      now restrain me; for the Austrian is in the land, and every true Castelcicalan should draw the
      sword and fling away the scabbard!"  
  "Compose yourself, dearest father," said Isabella, enraptured at the manner in which he had
      spoken of her lover: "excitement will only delay your recovery;—and something tells me that
      Castelcicala will soon demand your presence!"  
  But the Prince could   not   tranquillize his mind: the thraldom of a sick bed had
      become more intolerable to him than ever; and, although he now ceased to reproach his
      daughter, his irritability of temper painfully increased.  
  Three days afterwards letters were received at the mansion announcing Richard's entry into
      Villabella. Then the colour came back again to the cheeks of the charming Italian maiden; and
      her eyes shone with all their wonted brilliancy. Forgotten were her recent sorrows—gone was
      her agonising suspense—banished was the memory of her cruel doubts;—her lover was already a
      hero—and hope was once more enthroned in her heart.  
  The Prince now began to perceive the absolute necessity of avoiding the excitement of
      useless repinings at that illness which still chained him to his bed. Richard's letters told
      him how the inhabitants of Villabella had shouted the thrilling words "Long live Alberto!"—and
      the Prince was inspired with hopes the extent of which he did not seek to conceal.  
  Four days elapsed; and when the postman was again descried by the watchful Isabella
      advancing through the shrubbery towards the mansion, how quickly beat the hearts of the
      illustrious exiles!  
  Yes—there were letters from Castelcicala:—never were sealed documents more quickly torn
      open! And, oh! what joyous news did they contain—the victory of Piacere!  
  Isabella's feelings found vent in tears:—she was so happy—that she wept!  
  "These are indeed glorious tidings!" said the Prince, raising himself upon his pillow; then,
      after a moment's pause, he exclaimed warmly, "Richard Markham is a hero!"  
  Ah! how touchingly grateful was the glance which Isabella cast upon her father through her
      tears, to thank him for that generous sentiment relative to one in whom she felt so deep an
      interest!  
  Another short interval now occurred; and then fresh letters came, bringing farther tidings
      of success. The battle of Abrantani was a worthy sequence to that of Piacere!  
  "Oh! my beloved Isabella," now exclaimed the Prince, pressing her to his heart, "can you
      forgive me for the reproaches I have so unjustly—so wantonly uttered relative to Richard
      Markham?"  
  "Think not of the past, dearest father," answered the maiden: "the present is so full of
      joy, and hope, and glory, that we should not feel wearied of contemplating it."  
  "And, whatever may be the result of this contest," observed the Princess of Castelcicala to
      her husband, "you will always acknowledge that Richard is a hero?"  
  "He is a young man whom the greatest sovereign in the world might be proud to claim as a
      son!" ejaculated the Prince, enthusiastically.  
  Isabella pressed her mother's hand tenderly for having obtained this most welcome
      avowal.  
  The health of Prince Alberto now rapidly improved; and in a few days he was enabled to leave
      the couch to which he had been confined for many weary weeks.  
  And Isabella—Oh! all the charming carnation tinge had come back to her cheeks; and her eyes
      were brilliant with the purest rays of happiness and hope. Her fondest dreams—her brightest
      visions were all but realised: her lover was accomplishing those grand destinies of which her
      mental vision had caught glimpses ere his departure from England; and the world was already
      busy with his name. And now, too, was that name ever upon the tongue of her father, who
      pronounced it with admiration and respect.  
  A few days after the arrival of the intelligence of the decisive victory of Abrantani, the
      newspapers acquainted the illustrious Italian family with the fact that the Committee of
      Government at Montoni had bestowed the title of Marquis of Estella upon the youthful
      Commander-in-Chief of the Armies of Castelcicala.  
  Oh! with what joyous feelings—with what ineffable emotions of enthusiasm, did the charming
      Isabella read aloud to her parents that account of her lover's elevation,—an elevation which,
      as he himself had felt convinced, must remove one grand obstacle that had hitherto existed in
      the way of their happiness.  
  And how did her young heart beat and her bosom heave, when her father exclaimed, in an
      emphatic tone, "Yes—Richard is now a Marquis, and may take his rank amongst the proudest peers
      in the universe;—but there is a higher grade which he yet may reach—and it will be a happy day
      for us all when I shall say to him, '  Receive my daughter as the reward of your
       achievements, and become a Prince!  '"  
  words of gratitude for that most welcome assurance; but her heart was too
      full—she could only weep!  
  It was a most touching scene; and, perhaps, never had that exiled family experienced more
      perfect happiness than on this occasion.  
  But the sentiment was soon destined to give way to new fears and fresh anxieties. It was
      well-known that Montoni was besieged by an immense Austrian force; and the English newspapers,
      in commenting upon the position of the Constitutionalists, declared that though the moral
      effects of so decisive a victory as that of Abrantani must be very great, there was
      nevertheless much room to doubt whether the Marquis of Estella would be able to assemble an
      army sufficiently strong to march to the relief of the capital.  
  Prince Alberto trembled as he read these observations; because he not only comprehended
      their justice, but was also well aware that the fate of Castelcicala could be alone decided by
      a pitched battle between the Austrians and the Constitutionalists.  
  He endeavoured to conceal his misgivings from his wife and daughter: but they saw what was
      passing in his mind;—and thus all was still anxiety and hope—uncertainty and fervent
      aspiration, at the mansion of the Prince.  
  Thus did a few days pass; and Alberto suffered a slight relapse, in consequence of the
      nervous state of doubt in which he was plunged.  
  All his hopes—all his interests—all his prospects were at stake. If the Constitutionalists
      were successful, a crown awaited him: if the Austrians triumphed, the Grand Duke Angelo had
      pledged himself to adopt a scion of the imperial family of Vienna as the heir to the throne.
      Thus Prince Alberto hovered between a glorious elevation or a fatal fall.  
  The Princess, his wife, entertained sanguine hopes that a campaign so successfully begun,
      would terminate in triumph; and Isabella called every argument to her aid to convince her
      father and mother that all must end well! Nevertheless, poor girl! she also had her intervals
      of doubt and alarm; and many were the tears which she shed in secret as she prayed for the
      safety of her lover.  
  And now how eagerly was the arrival of the postman looked for every day; how anxiously was
      the presence of the newspaper awaited!  
  At length, on the morning of the 29th of January, all doubts were cleared up—all
      uncertainties terminated.  
  The illustrious family was seated at the breakfast table—a mere ceremonious mockery, for
      they were unable to eat a morsel.  
  Presently a servant entered, and presented the morning paper to the Prince.  
  Alberto opened it with a trembling hand: his wife and daughter watched him attentively.  
  Suddenly he started—his eyes were lighted up with their wonted fires—a flush appeared on his
      pale cheek—and he exclaimed in a fervent tone, "O God! I thank thee!"  
  He could say no more: his emotions nearly overpowered him, weakened as he was by a long
      illness.  
  Isabella caught the paper as it was falling from his hands. One glance was sufficient: it
      told her all! For there—conspicuously displayed at the head of a column—was the following
      glorious announcement:—  
  
  "CASTELCICALA.  
   "TOTAL DEFEAT OF THE AUSTRIANS—DELIVERANCE OF MONTONI.   
  "The French Government have received the following Telegraphic Despatch from Toulon:—  
  "'  The Castelcicalan steamer   Torione   has just arrived. The Austrians were
        completely routed on the 23rd. Montoni is delivered. The Grand Duke has fled.  
  The Marquis of Estella  
  entered the capital at three o'clock on the 24th. He has been appointed Regent until the
        arrival of  
  Alberto I  .   The   Torione   left while the cannon were saluting the presence
        of the  
  Marquis  .'"    
  "Let me be the first to congratulate your Serene Highness on this glorious result!"
      exclaimed Isabella, falling at the feet of her father, and pressing his hand to her lips.  
  "No—not on your knees, dearest Isabel!" cried Alberto, now Grand Duke of Castelcicala: "but
      come to my arms, sweet girl—and you also, beloved companion of my banishment," he added,
      turning towards his wife, who was nearly overcome by these sudden tidings of joy:—"come to my
      arms—for we are no longer exiles—we shall once more behold our native land!"  
  How sweet—how sweet were the caresses which those three illustrious personages now
      exchanged:—how unalloyed was that happiness which they now experienced!  
  And when they were enabled to compose their feelings so far as to discourse upon the
      triumphant result of the Constitutional cause, the name of Richard Markham was not
      forgotten!  
  
  CHAPTER CCIII.   RAVENSWORTH HALL.  
  In the immediate neighbourhood of Kilburn on the gentle acclivity rising towards Wilsden
      Green, stood a noble mansion in the midst of a spacious park.  
  Every thing about that vast structure, within and without, denoted aristocratic grandeur
      combined with exquisite taste.  
  The adjunction of no modern buildings had spoiled the antique and time-honoured appearance
      of Ravensworth Hall: the hand of the mason, when repairing the ravages of years, had
      successfully studied to preserve the effect of the beautiful Elizabethan architecture.  
  Thus the splendid mansion,—with its numerous gables, its tall chimneys, its picturesque
      belfry, its immense windows with small diamond-shaped panes, and its ample portals approached
      by a flight of twenty steps,—seemed well adapted for the residence of a peer who could trace
      his family back to the epoch of the Conquest, and who preserved as much feudal state and
      grandeur as modern systems and habits would permit.  
  It was the 1st of February; and as early as six o'clock on that morning—before it was
      light—Ravensworth Hall was a scene of bustle and excitement.  
  Some grand event was evidently about to take place.  
  The chimneys belonging to the kitchen and servants' offices in the rear of the
      building, sent forth dense columns of smoke, which seemed to imply that extensive culinary
      preparations were in progress.  
  The butler,—a venerable old man with hair as white as snow, but with a stately portliness of
      form that was scarcely bent by age,—was busy in selecting the choicest wine from the immense
      stock of which he was the guardian. The female domestics were early employed in preparing the
      grand apartments of the mansion for the reception of a brilliant company:—windows were
      cleaned, coverings removed from the velvet cushions of chairs and sofas, heavy hangings and
      curtains arranged in the nicest folds so as to display the richness of their texture to the
      best advantage, and China ornaments carefully dusted.  
  Lord Ravensworth rose earlier than he had done for some weeks; for before the clock struck
      eight he descended from his dressing-room to a chamber which he denominated his "cabinet."  
  He was a man of about fifty years of age, and had evidently been very handsome. But his
      countenance was now colourless, haggard, and painfully indicative of some deeply seated
      disease which was preying upon his vitals. His eyes were sunken and lustreless: his cheeks
      were hollow,—and yet seldom had an individual of his age possessed so splendid a set of teeth,
      the whole of which were perfect. So thin and wasted was his form, that, although he was
      naturally of a powerful and portly structure, the dressing-gown which he had on hung as
      loosely about him as if on a skeleton.  
  And how rapidly had these ravages of an unknown and unaccountable malady worked their
      terrific influence on a man who had lately appeared to possess that constitutional vigour and
      robustness of health which predicate a long life!  
  Three months previously to the time of which we are writing had Lord Ravensworth first
      experienced a change in his physical energies which began to alarm him. He was then staying,
      with his young and beautiful wife, to whom he had only then been married half-a-year, at his
      town-mansion; and when the primal symptoms of his malady appeared,—evidencing themselves in
      want of appetite, intervals of deep lethargic languor, and an apathetic listlessness in
      respect to every thing passing around him,—his physicians advised him to essay the bracing air
      and change of scene of Ravensworth Park. His lordship was, however, unwilling to remove his
      young wife—the lovely Adeline—from the gaieties of London, at that season when all the
      fashionable world was returning to the metropolis after the autumnal visits to their country
      seats or favourite watering-places; and he had accordingly persisted in passing the Christmas
      holidays at his town-residence.  
  But he rapidly grew worse:—his appetite totally failed him; and it was with the greatest
      difficulty that he could force himself to take the sustenance necessary to sustain life. He
      had always been a great smoker; and his only solace now appeared to be his meerschaum. Alone
      in his own private apartment, he would sit for hours with no other companion than the eternal
      pipe. He was fond of oriental tobacco, because the Turkish and Persian weeds possessed a
      peculiar aroma which rendered their use a habit comparatively inoffensive to others. And here
      we may observe that the only reciprocal attentions which had taken place for years between
      Lord Ravensworth and his younger brother, the Honourable Gilbert Vernon, consisted in the
      annual interchange of presents:—thus, as Gilbert had resided in oriental climes, he was in the
      habit of sending Lord Ravensworth every year a small chest containing the most rare and
      excellent samples of tobacco grown in Asia Minor and Persia; and in return he received from
      his elder brother a box filled with all the newest English publications, and a variety of
      choice articles for the toilette, such as Gilbert could not have procured in the East.  
  Thus was it that, when the nobleman found a strange and insidious malady growing upon him,
      he naturally sought relief, both mental and physical, in his favourite recreation; and never
      had the present of his brother seemed more valuable to him than when he forgot his ailments in
      the soothing enjoyments of the aromatic Turkish or mildly-flavoured Persian tobacco.  
  For two months had he been subject to a mysterious and deeply-rooted disease,—which one
      physician treated as atrophy, and which another honestly confessed he could not
      comprehend,—when about the beginning of the year, he had yielded to the entreaties of his wife
      and removed to Ravensworth Hall.  
  There he appeared to rally for a few days,—taking powerful exercise on horseback and on
      foot, and indulging but little in the luxury of the meerschaum. One day, however, the weather
      was so intemperate that he could not stir abroad; and he passed several hours in his
      "cabinet," with his favourite meerschaum. From that period the apathy which he had to some
      extent shaken off, returned with increased power: his manner seemed more lethargic and
      indifferent than it had yet been; and the companionship of his pipe grew more welcome to him
      than ever. He now spent the greater portion of each day in his cabinet, with positive orders
      that he was not to be disturbed; and there he enjoyed that baleful comfort which is
      experienced by the   Teryaki  , or oriental opium-eaters. Reclining in a capacious
      arm-chair, with the tube of his meerschaum between his lips, Lord Ravensworth forgot the world
      without,—remembered not his wife,—thought not of the infant that she bore in her bosom,—and
      even seemed insensible to the fearful wasting away which his physical strength was rapidly
      undergoing. He refused to allow his physician to prescribe for him; and though the work of
      enfeeblement and decay progressed with alarming velocity, he seldom appeared to reflect that
      he must shortly be numbered with the dead.  
  It is due to Adeline to state that,—attached to pleasure and gaiety, and fond of society as
      she was,—she endeavoured to arouse her husband as much as she could from that mortal apathy
      which, even in her presence, shrouded all his sensibilities as it were in a premature grave.
      His case presented the remarkable and mysterious anomaly of a man in the noon of lusty-hood,
      and without any apparent ailment of a specific kind, passing out of existence by a geometrical
      progression of decay.  
  Such was the condition of Lord Ravensworth at the period when we introduce our readers to
      the Hall.  
  off the torpor of listlessness and the opiate influence of his mortal apathy.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Lady Ravensworth's cousin, the Honourable Miss Maria Augusta Victoria Amelia Hyacintha
      Villiers, was, in fashionable language, "to be that morning led to the hymeneal altar." This
      young lady was rich only in her names: she was a portionless orphan; and the cold calculation
      of her guardian, Lord Rossville (Adeline's father), had induced him to consent to the
      sacrifice of the poor girl to a suitor whose wealth and title of Baronet were his only
      recommendations.  
  Miss Maria Augusta Victoria Amelia Hyacintha Villiers had been residing with her cousin
      Adeline, ever since the marriage of the latter with Lord Ravensworth; and it was to consummate
      the sacrifice ere now alluded to that all the grand preparations before mentioned were in
      progress. Lord and Lady Rossville and Lady Ravensworth all conceived that Lord Ravensworth
      would be benefited by the excitement attending the assemblage of a marriage party at the Hall;
      and their expectations appeared to be in some measure justified. His lordship descended at an
      unusually early hour to his cabinet, and, instead of having recourse to his meerschaum, he
      summoned the butler, to whom he gave instructions relative to the service of particular
      wines.  
  For nearly a month past his lordship had not meddled in any of the affairs of the household;
      and the venerable servant was overjoyed to think that his noble master was giving unequivocal
      signs of recovery. This idea seemed to acquire confirmation from the circumstance that the
      nobleman afterwards returned to his dressing-room without smoking a single pipe, and, aided by
      his valet, attired himself with unusual precision and care.  
  "Your lordship is better this morning," observed the valet, deferentially.  
  "Yes—I am a little better, Quentin," returned the nobleman; "and yet I hardly know that I
      have ever felt actually ill. Want of appetite is the principal ailment which affects me. It
      makes me grow thin, you perceive:—but am I so   very   thin, Quentin?"  
  so long as their wages are regularly paid. "Your lordship is certainly not so
      stout as your lordship was; but——"  
  "But what, Quentin?"  
  "I think—if your lordship would not be offended—that I am acquainted with the cause of that
      want of appetite, which prevents your lordship from taking proper sustenance."  
  "Go on, Quentin: I shall not be offended. I know you are a faithful fellow," exclaimed the
      nobleman. "What do you think is the cause?"  
  "With your lordship's permission, I should say that smoking too much—" began the valet,
      timidly.  
  "Pooh! pooh!—nonsense!" interrupted Lord Ravensworth, impatiently. "I have always been a
      great smoker: you know I have. I began to smoke when I was only fourteen; and as I was so long
      a bachelor—during the best years of my life, indeed—I had no reason to curb myself in my
      favourite recreation. It would be different, perhaps, if I used the filthy tobacco which you
      buy in England—or if I smoked strong Havannah cigars. But that mild and aromatic plant, which
      is reared in the East, cannot injure a soul:—a child might smoke it."  
  "Your lordship knows best," observed the valet, feeling that he was treading on delicate
      ground. "But I think your lordship has smoked more lately than——"  
  "I dare say I have," again interrupted the nobleman, with some little petulance. "But the
      last chest of tobacco which my brother sent me is so much better than all the former ones; and
      there is such a delightful soothing influence in the samples of Turkish and Persian, that I
      cannot lay aside my pipe when once I take it up. Let me see! It was only last October—yes, and
      at the end of October, too—that I received the chest; and I have already made a deep inroad
      into it."  
  "Is the Honourable Mr. Vernon still in Turkey, my lord?" inquired the valet.  
  "Yes: at least, when I heard from him last—that was when he sent me the chest of tobacco in
      October—he stated in his letter that he should yet remain abroad for two or three years. He
      seems devoted to the East. But you know, Quentin, that he and I are not upon the very best of
      terms, although we occasionally correspond and interchange little civilities every now and
      then. However, I can scarcely blame myself for any coldness that may subsist between us. I
      have behaved to him as an elder brother ought to a younger one;—and because I would not
      consent to minister to his extravagant propensities he took umbrage. When I espoused her
      ladyship last May, I wrote to Mr. Vernon, who was then at Beyrout, acquainting him with that
      event; and his reply, which accompanied the chest of tobacco in October, was more kind and
      conciliatory than I could have expected, considering his gloomy and morose character."  
  "I am glad that he exhibited a proper feeling towards your lordship," said Quentin, by way
      of making some observation, because his master had paused.  
  "And so am I," continued the nobleman. "Then I wrote to him again in November, to inform him
      that Lady Ravensworth was in a way that gave promise of a continuation of our name,—the name
      of Ravensworth is a very ancient one, Quentin——"  
  "Yes, my lord. I believe your lordship can trace it back to the invasion of Britain by the
      Romans?"  
  "No—not quite that," returned the nobleman; "but to the conquest by William the Norman.
      However, I wrote to my brother, as I have informed you; and I received no answer. I therefore
      conclude that he has renewed his travels through Asia-Minor."  
  The toilet of Lord Ravensworth was now complete; and he hesitated for a moment whether he
      should repair to his cabinet and take "just one little pipe," or whether he should hasten to
      the drawing-room at once.  
  The valet understood what was passing in the nobleman's mind; but as he was really attached
      to his master, and moreover entertained a belief that the too liberal use of tobacco had
      reduced him to his present wretched physical condition, he hastened to exclaim, "The company
      are already assembled, my lord, in the drawing-room; and her ladyship will be quite delighted
      to see your lordship looking so very well to-day."  
  Once more Lord Ravensworth, who for a moment was about to relapse into a state of listless
      apathy, brightened up, and wrestled with the fatal influence that was creeping over him; and
      in this improved state of mind and body he proceeded to the drawing-room.  
  
  CHAPTER CCIV   THE BRIDE AND BRIDEGROOM.  
  A brilliant assembly was collected in the principal saloon of Ravensworth Hall.  
  Lord Rossville,—a tall, thin, stern-looking man,—and Lady Rossville,—a very short, stout,
      and affected dame,—were amongst the most conspicuous by rank and station.  
  Lady Ravensworth seemed as beautiful as Lydia Hutchinson had described her; and, as she was
      rather pale and delicate in consequence of being in an "interesting situation," she was really
      a being who might be termed, without any poetical exaggeration, sweetly fascinating. But no
      one who there beheld the elegant and proud peeress, doing the honours of her splendid mansion
      to a circle of noble guests, would have imagined that, when plain Miss Adeline Enfield, she
      had played the wanton at so tender an age, and given birth to a child in a miserable
      garret!  
  The Honourable Miss Maria Augusta Victoria Amelia Hyacintha Villiers was a beautiful, but
      timid and retiring, girl of seventeen;—and as she now appeared in the virginal white which
      custom had compelled her to assume for the consummation of a sacrifice which she felt—Oh! how
      keenly felt,—it was easy for a benevolent eye to perceive that she was a victim to cold
      calculation, and not a happy bride about to accompany to the altar one whom she loved.  
  But there were no benevolent eyes there:—there seldom are in fashionable life and in such
      cases. The expression of blank despair which marked the countenance of the young bride was
      regarded only as the token of maidenly reserve and bashfulness.  
  Not that she loved another: no—her heart was entirely her own;—but she was about to be given
      to a man whom she abhorred.  
  peer like Lord Rossville? Ridiculous! He who believed that the people are mere
      machines formed to toil for the aristocracy, was not likely to listen with even common
      patience to the remonstrances of a young maiden for whom he believed he had arranged a
      splendid destiny.  
  "But, then, poor Maria might have opened her heart to Lady Rossville?" says that self-same
      innocent reader. Equally ridiculous! A mother who had intrigued so well as to foist her own
      daughter upon an elderly noble like Lord Ravensworth, and who imagined that matrimony was
      nothing more nor less in respect to young ladies than "catching at the first rich man who
      offered himself," was very far from being the proper person at whose hands the orphan and
      portionless Maria could obtain a reprieve of the death-sentence which had been pronounced upon
      her heart.  
  In high life how many matrimonial connexions are based on the calculations of sordid
      interest, instead of the sympathies of the soul! And then the hoary peer or the decrepid nabob
      is surprised that his young wife proves unfaithful to his bed, and declaims against the
      profligacy of her conduct in yielding to the temptations of a deeply-seated love for another—a
      love which was perhaps engendered before the ignominious sacrifice of her person to the
      sexagenarian husband was ever thought of!  
  But to return to the drawing-room at Ravensworth Hall.  
  Amongst the select party assembled, we must especially mention the Honourable Miss Wigmore
      and the Honourable Miss Helena Sophia Alexandrina Wigmore—the bridesmaids, who looked as if
      they had much rather have been principal instead of secondary actresses in the matrimonial
      ceremony. There also was the newly-appointed Bishop of the Carribbee Islands—solemn in lawn
      sleeves, and pompous in the display of his episcopal importance. Lounging near the chair of a
      very pretty girl, with whom he was conversing, stood Count Swindeliski—a refugee who sported
      enormous whiskers, who had found his way into fashionable society no one exactly knew how, and
      who had the extraordinary but not altogether uncommon knack of living at the rate of five
      thousand a-year—upon nothing! Then there were several Members of Parliament who had collected
      together near a window, and were disputing with all their talent whether there ought to be a
      duty of one halfpenny or three-farthings per hundred on foreign brick-bats. Near an open piano
      was gathered a group of very young ladies, engaged in an edifying discussion on the character
      of some other very young lady who was not present. Conversing with Lord Rossville was the
      owner of half a county, who could return six Members to Parliament with the greatest ease, but
      could not for the life of him return a sensible answer to even the plainest question. Standing
      apart from all the rest, was a young country clergyman, who kept turning up the whites of his
      eyes as if in a constant agony of some kind or another—but really because he was in the
      presence of a Bishop, although the said Bishop never once cast his reverend eyes that way.
      Then there was the Dowager Countess of Brazenphace, who had "got off" seven out of nine
      red-haired daughters, and had brought the two remaining single ones with her just to see if
      they could not make an impression somewhere or another. There also was the celebrated German
      philosopher Baron Torkemdef, who had written a work in fourteen quarto volumes to prove that
      there is no such thing as matter—that we do not really exist—but that we ourselves and every
      thing else are mere ideas. This learned man was, as might be supposed, a very valuable
      acquisition to a bridal party. Seated next to Lady Rossville was the Honourable Mrs.
      Berrymenny, who had seen five husbands consigned to the tomb, and was looking out for a sixth.
      It was, however, probable that she was doomed to look long enough, inasmuch as she had no
      fortune, and had already reached the comfortable age of fifty-three. Lastly, there was the
      elegant and accomplished Miss Blewstocken, who was known to have written a volume of poems
      which had an excellent circulation (amongst the butter-shops), and who was suspected of having
      perpetrated a novel.  
  These are all the stars whom it is worth while to signalise amidst a galaxy of some fifty
      personages.  
  The bridegroom had not yet arrived: he was expected to make his appearance at about
      half-past eight.  
  When Lord Ravensworth entered the room, every one who had not lately seen him was shocked at
      the dreadful change which had taken place in him; but of course the guests, one and all,
      assured him that they had never seen him look so well before.  
  Adeline sighed deeply—for she could not help thinking that it was a miserable mockery for a
      gaunt and almost fleshless skeleton thus to deck itself out in an apparel befitting a
      bridal:—moreover, the idea that if her yet unborn offspring should prove a girl, the broad
      lands and noble Hall of Ravensworth would pass away to another, was ever uppermost in her
      mind.  
  To conceal her emotions, she hastened to the side of poor Maria Villiers, to whom she said,
      "It is very strange that the lady's-maid whom you have hired did not come last evening, as
      promised."  
  "It is, indeed, very annoying," observed Maria, whose sorrows were, however, too deep to
      permit her mind to be even ruffled by that trifling source of vexation.  
  "But never mind," continued Lady Ravensworth, in a whisper; "you shall take my maid Flora
      with you, and I will either find another at my leisure, or keep the one whom you have engaged,
      should she make her appearance after you have left."  
  "This is very kind of you, Adeline," said Maria, mechanically.  
  "I am afraid you did not manage well in your first essay in choosing dependants, dear
      Maria," observed Lady Ravensworth. "You were attracted by the advertisement in the
         Morning Herald  ; whereas I never should think of taking a lady's-maid who
      advertises. Then, as you yourself told me, you went to some out-of-the-way place in the City
      for the young woman's character."  
  "Oh! I was perfectly satisfied, Adeline," interrupted Maria, to whom this conversation
      appeared trivial in the extreme on an occasion so fraught with solemnity to herself.  
  Lady Ravensworth was about to make some reply, when Lord Rossville, who had been standing at
      the window for the last few moments, exclaimed, "Here's the bridegroom!"  
  A cold shudder passed over Maria's frame; and it seemed as if her heart had been suddenly
      swathed in ice.  
  She alone retained her place: all the other persons present hurried to the
      window.  
  And, sure enough, the bridegroom was in view; and a very funny view it was. Perched upon the
      back of an enormous bright bay horse, the "happy man" never appeared more miserable in his
      life. He was tugging at the reins with all his might; but the huge animal galloped furiously
      along in spite of the efforts made to restrain its speed. The bridegroom's feet were thrust as
      far as they could go into the stirrups: his hat was rammed tight down over his eyes, to
      prevent it from blowing away;—his form was bent, or rather crouched up, like that of a
      monkey;—with his right hand he held fast by the horse's mane;—and with his left he continued
      tugging at the bit and bradoon. The poor animal itself seemed to wonder, like John Gilpin's
      steed, what sort of a thing it had got upon its back; for its eyes glared, and its nostrils
      dilated with affright: while its whole body was covered with a greasy perspiration, and white
      flakes of foam kept falling from its mouth.  
  In this manner did the bridegroom rush madly, but with involuntary speed, through the
      spacious Park towards the Hall. At a short distance behind him rode another cavalier, who
      managed his horse well, and amused himself by maintaining a succession of shouts and hurrahs
      after the bridegroom, whereby that unfortunate individual's steed was only affrighted all the
      more. A third person on horseback appeared at a greater distance still; but this was the
      bridegroom's servant.  
  "A most un-christianlike and decidedly unhallowed manner for a bridegroom to comport
      himself," said the Bishop of the Carribbee Islands, as he contemplated this ludicrous display
      of horsemanship.  
  "It certainly is strange," observed Lord Rossville. "But perhaps our young friend is anxious
      to display his skill——"  
  "No such a ting, milor—no such a ting!" ejaculated Count Swindeliski, caressing his
      whiskers. "Dat young gentelman's von great homebogue; and if me was dere, me hit him some kick
      for his pain."  
  "Ah! he doesn't ride so well as my poor dear   fourth  ," said Mrs. Berrymenny, with a
      profound sigh, as she thus alluded to one of her husbands.  
  "It's all vanity and vexation of spirit," observed the young clergyman, glancing
      deferentially towards the Bishop.  
  "No, sir—it is not, sir," said the Bishop sternly: "it is sheer bad riding, sir—and nothing
      else."  
  The Right Reverend Father in God had been a fox-hunter in his time.  
  "For my part," cried a Member of Parliament, "I move that we repair to the young gentleman's
      assistance."  
  "And I beg to second the motion," said another Member.  
  "Ah! by heaven, that's serious!" ejaculated Lord Rossville, turning abruptly away from the
      window.  
  And so it seemed; for the horse suddenly stopped near the entrance of the mansion, and
      pitched the bridegroom clean over its head into a clump of evergreens.  
  All the ladies who beheld this catastrophe screamed aloud.  
  But at the very next moment he rose from his ignominious position, and with difficulty
      removing his battered hat from over his eyes, saluted the company assembled at the windows of
      the drawing-room.  
  "It's noting at all," said Baron Torkemdef: "he only tink himself hurted—you only tink dat a
      horse what did seem to run way wid him:—it all de idea—all de fancy."  
  Then, while Lord Rossville and others hastened to meet the bridegroom and assure themselves
      that he was not hurt, Baron Torkemdef caught hold of the great county landowner by the
      button-hole, and began to expatiate upon the folly of yielding to sensations of pain and other
      afflictions, as not only those sensations but also we ourselves were only so many
      unsubstantial ideas.  
  Meantime, poor Maria Villiers had remained in a sort of listless reverie in her seat; and it
      was only when Lady Ravensworth assured her that the bridegroom had sustained no injury, that
      she learnt he had been in any peril at all.  
  In ten minutes the door opened, and Lord Rossville returned to the room, ushering in the
      bridegroom, who had been cleansed in the meantime from the effects of his fall, and who
      endeavoured to put a smiling face upon the matter, although still terribly disconcerted.  
  Then Lady Adeline advanced to meet him, and said in a most gracious tone, "We have been
      painfully excited on your account, Sir Cherry Bounce."  
  
  CHAPTER CCV.   THE BREAKFAST.  
  Yes—it was to this individual that Maria Villiers was to be sacrificed:—it was to him that
      the cold and selfish policy of Lord Rossville was about to consign a beautiful, an artless,
      and an amiable girl.  
  Sir Cherry's mother had paid the debt of nature about a year previously; and the young
      baronet found himself the possessor of an immense fortune.  
  Lord Rossville only looked upon his orphan niece Maria as an encumbrance while she remained
      single, or as a means of increasing the   wealth   (and in his idea, the
         strength  ) of the family when she married. Sir Cherry had met her in the brilliant
      sphere of the West-End society: he had courted her; and, the moment Lord and Lady Rossville
      observed his attentions, they   commanded   her to receive them with favour. She—poor
      timid, friendless girl!—was half persuaded into the idea that the match was really to her
      advantage, and half bullied (for we can actually use no other term) into an acquiescence in
      the views of her guardian.  
  Thus she had not dared to utter a negative when the effeminate and insipid baronet had
      solicited her hand; and, her silence being taken for a ready consent, the preliminaries were
      hurried on, without any further reference to the inclinations or wishes of the victim!  
  "We have been painfully excited on your account, Sir Cherry Bounce," said Lady Ravensworth,
      advancing to receive the bridegroom.  
  "The twuth wath that my fwiend Thmilackth inthithted on my widing the new horth I bought
      yethterday," exclaimed the baronet; "and ath he don't theem to be veway well bwoken in, the
      wethult wath that I nearly got a bwoken head."  
  had followed his friend into the room. "He would keep in advance of me the whole
      way; and although I called after him to rein in—strike him!—he would not listen to me."  
  "It wath that thouting and hoowaying that fwightened my horth," observed Sir Cherry, casting
      a sulky look towards Smilax.  
  "At all events you are not hurt—and that is the essential," said Lord Rossville.  
  "Hurted! no—of course de good gentleman's not hurted," exclaimed Baron Torkemdef: "it noting
      at all but de idea—de fancy. You know vare well, sare, dat you not really exist—dat you only
      tink you do exist——"  
  Sir Cherry Bounce, to whom these words were addressed, cast so ludicrous a look of surprise
      mingled with dismay upon the philosopher, that Major Smilax Dapper burst into an immoderate
      fit of laughter; so that Baron Torkemdef was for a moment disconcerted.  
  Lord Rossville seized this opportunity to lead Sir Cherry Bounce towards Miss Villiers, who
      received her intended husband with a manner which to the superficial observer might appear
      excessive bashfulness, but which to the penetrating eye was the expression of
      blank—dumb—soul-crushing despair.  
  "I was just as timid with my   first   as Maria is," whispered Mrs. Berrymenny to the
      Countess of Brazenphace: "with my   second   I was a leetle more gay;—with my
         third  ——"  
  "Dear Mrs. Berrymenny," interrupted the Countess, impatiently; "pray do not talk of your
         seconds   and   thirds  , when here are my two youngest daughters who haven't
      even yet got their   firsts  ."  
  Two footmen, in gorgeous liveries, now entered the room and threw open a pair of
      folding-doors, thus revealing an inner apartment where the nuptial ceremony was to take place
      by special license.  
  Then Sir Cherry Bounce took Maria's hand, and led her slowly into the next room, the
      Honourable Misses Wigmore attending her in the capacity of bridemaids.  
  The remainder of the company followed in procession.  
  And now the Bishop takes his place near the table, and opens the book.  
  The ceremony begins.  
  Pale as marble, and almost insensible to what is passing around her, Maria Villiers hears a
      sort of droning mumbling, but cannot distinguish the words.  
  And yet the Bishop read the prayers in a clear, distinct, and impressive manner.  
  One of the bridemaids whispered in Maria's ear; and the young victim mechanically repeated
      the answer thus prompted.  
  But she was scarcely aware of the tenour of what she had said: every moment the scene became
      less comprehensible to her mind—and she was on the point of uttering a wild cry, so alarming
      was the confusion of her thoughts, when there was a sudden movement amongst the assembly—warm
      lips touched her forehead for a moment and were instantly withdrawn—and then her ears rang
      with the congratulations of her   friends  !  
  The chaos of her ideas was immediately dispelled; and the appalling truth broke suddenly on
      her.  
  The ceremony was over—and she was a wife:—upon her marble brow the kiss of a husband had
      been imprinted.  
  By one of those strange efforts of which the soul is sometimes capable, when "the worst" has
      arrived and "the bitterness of death" has passed, Maria recovered her presence of mind, and
      even smiled faintly in acknowledgment of the congratulations which she received.  
  "Dat young lady seem vare happy now," whispered the German philosopher to Mrs. Berrymenny;
      "but it all noting more dan de idea. We all idea—dat reverend Bischop—dis room—dat book what
      he was read in—every ting!"  
  "Do you mean to persuade me, sir," asked Mrs. Berrymenny, with an indignant glance at Baron
      Torkemdef, "that it is all mere fancy on my part that I have had five husbands? If so, sir,
      all I can say is that I should like to have a sixth opportunity of putting your theory to the
      test."  
  And with these words the widow of five experiments of the marriage-state joined the
      procession which was now on its way to the breakfast-room.  
  The table in this apartment was spread with all the delicacies which were calculated to
      tempt the appetite even of satiety.  
  Sir Cherry thought it necessary to whisper some soft nonsense in the ears of his bride, as
      he conducted her to a seat; and Maria turned upon him a vacant glance of surprise;—then,
      suddenly recollecting the relation in which she stood towards him, her head drooped upon her
      bosom, and she made no reply.  
  "Cherry," whispered Major Dapper, "you are not half lively enough—blow you! You look like a
      fool—but I suppose you can't help it."  
  "Hold your tongue, Thmilackth," returned Sir Cherry, colouring to such an extent that the
      deep red was visible beneath his light hair. "You than't tweat me like a child any more."  
  And now began the bustle of the breakfast-table, and the excitement of the scene appeared to
      produce the most beneficial effects upon Lord Ravensworth, who did the honours of the table,
      conjointly with Adeline, in a manner indicative of more gaiety and spirit than he had
      exhibited for some time.  
  "Lord Ravensworth is certainly improving," said the Countess of Brazenphace apart to Mrs.
      Berrymenny.  
  "My   second   used to deceive me in the same manner," was the reply, also delivered in
      an under tone. "He was always dying—and always getting better, for at least three years before
      he went off altogether. My   fourth  ——"  
  "Oh! you have told me all about him before," hastily interrupted the Countess, who was
      alarmed lest the widow should inflict upon her a narrative of oft-experienced tediousness.  
  "Dat vare excellent bird—how you call him? Peasant—ah!" observed Baron Torkemdef to the
      young clergyman, who, like a child, saw, heard, but said nothing. "But after all it no use for
      to praise one ting or to blame anoder—'cause dem each de idea—de fancy. Dere really no
      table—no peasant—no wine—no peoples: it all de imagination."  
  And while the philosopher went on expatiating in this manner, the viands disappeared from
      his plate and the wine from the decanter near him with a marvellous rapidity; so that the
      young clergyman could not help muttering to himself, "I wonder whether the Baron's appetite is
      an idea also."  
  at Count Swindeliski, I shall be very angry. He has got no money, and is not a
      match for you. There is the Member for Buyemup-cum-Rhino sitting on your right, and he is a
      wealthy bachelor."  
  "But, dear mamma," returned Miss Seraphina, also in a whisper, "he is at least sixty."  
  "So much the better," was the prompt reply: "he is the easier to catch. Now mind your p's
      and q's, Miss."  
  This maternal advice was duly attended to; and, by the time he had tossed off his third
      glass of champagne, the Member for Buyemup-cum-Rhino had grown very tenderly maudlin towards
      the red-haired young husband-hunter.  
  "Miss Blewstocken, dear," cried the elder Miss Wigmore, "have you composed nothing
      appropriate for the present occasion?—no sweet little poem in your own fascinating style?"  
  "Oh! dear Miss Wigmore, how unkind!" said the literary young lady, in an affected and
      languishing manner. "I could not have believed it of you—to appeal to me before so many! If I
      have told you in confidence, or if it be indeed generally known that '  The Poetic
       Nosegay  ' was written by me—and if it had a very large circulation—I do not think it
      is fair to expect——"  
  "Ah! Miss Blewstocken," exclaimed Miss Wigmore, "we are all aware that your pen is seldom
      idle."  
  "It is really quite provoking to find oneself known to Fame," said the literary lady, with
      increasing affectation of manner, and in a drawling, insipid tone. "I wish I had never written
      at all:—not that I have ever been induced to acknowledge the authorship of that novel which
      was so successful last year—'  The Royal Fiddlestick  ,' I mean. No:—but the time
         may   come——"  
  And here the literary lady shook her head in so mysterious a way that if she intended to be
      incomprehensible, she certainly was most successful in the endeavour.  
  "Who is that lady?" inquired the Bishop of Lord Rossville.  
  "Miss Blewstocken, the celebrated authoress," was the reply.  
  "Oh!" said the Bishop, in a dry laconic way, which proved that, however celebrated Miss
      Blewstocken might be, the trumpet of her renown had never sounded in his ears before.  
  "Talk of de poetry and de novel," exclaimed the German Baron, "what are all dem to de
      researches of de philosoph? Was your lordship ever read my von grand vork on de
       '  Ideality of de Universe  ?'"  
  "I cannot say that I have ever read it, sir," answered the Bishop, with a frown. "I have
      heard of it, sir—and I consider its doctrines to be opposed to the Bible, sir. I believe it is
      in fourteen large volumes, sir? Well, sir—then all I have to observe upon it is that so many
      quartos are themselves too substantial to be a mere idea."  
  "But dey are von idea!" exclaimed the Baron, angrily. "Dey do not really exist, milor—in
      spite of what your lordship shall say. Every ting is de idea—we be ourselves all de walking,
      moving idea: dere no such ting as joy—no such ting as pain—dey mere sensation—"  
  At this moment the learned philosopher started from his seat with a yell of agony, and began
      stamping on the floor in a furious manner.  
  The fact was that while he was gesticulating in order to bestow additional emphasis on the
      enunciation of his principles, his hand, raised in the air, came in contact with a cup of
      coffee which a domestic was about to place before the young clergyman; and the scalding fluid
      was poured forth on the bald head and down the back of the philosopher.  
  "Pray do not mind it, sir," said the Bishop, drily: "it is merely an idea."  
  "Yes—it de idea, no doubt!" ejaculated Baron Torkemdef, as he wiped his head with his
      pocket-handkerchief, while the domestic murmured an apology and slunk away: "but de idea was
      come in de unpleasant shape—dat noting against my doctrine—tousand devils, how him do
      burn!"  
  And, particularly disconcerted, the learned man sank back into his seat, where he consoled
      himself with a renewed application to the decanter near him.  
  Meantime Count Swindeliski was rendering himself very amiable to the Honourable Miss Helena
      Sophia Alexandrina Wigmore, next to whom he sate.  
  "Poland, then, must be a very beautiful country?" said the young lady, duly impressed by a
      most graphic description which the Count had just terminated.  
  "It vare fine—vare fine," returned the fascinating foreigner. "De ancestral castle of the
      Swindeliskis vare grand—touch de clouds—so long dat when you do stand at de von end you shall
      not see de oder—so wide dat horses shall always be kept saddled for to cross de court. My
      father was keep tree tousand dependants: me not choose for to spend de revenue in dat vay—me
      only may keep von tousand."  
  "And can you prefer England to your own beautiful country?" inquired Miss Helena
      Wigmore.  
  "Me shall not prefare England," answered the Count: "me shall choose wife of de English
      ladies—dey vare beautiful—vare fine—vare clevare. Den me take my wife to Poland, where she
      shall be von vare great lady indeed."  
  And, as he spoke, he threw a tender glance at his fair companion.  
  But Miss Helena Sophia Alexandrina Wigmore knew full well that every word the Count uttered
      concerning his fortune and castle was false. She was, however, too polite not to seem to
      believe him; and she was, moreover, pleased at engrossing the attentions of the handsomest man
      in the room. She therefore permitted herself to flirt a little with him; especially as her
      mother was not present to control her actions; but, like all young ladies in fashionable
      circles, she was too astute and wary to entertain the least idea of a more serious
      connexion.  
  The breakfast was now over; a carriage and four drove up to the front of the mansion; and
      the hour of departure had arrived for the "happy couple."  
  Maria withdrew for a few moments in company with Lady Ravensworth and the two bridemaids and
      when she returned she was dressed for travelling.  
  "Happy fellow!" whispered Major Dapper to his friend; "blow you!"  
  "Fooleth Thmilackth!" returned Sir Cherry Bounce. "But I am weally veway happy—ekthepth that
      curthed wide on the fatht twotting horth. Good bye: I thall wite to you in a few dayth."  
  The farewells were all said; and Maria resigned her hand to him who was about to bear her
      away from the Hall.  
  She wept not—she sighed not: but despair was written on her marble visage—though
      none present could read that sombre and melancholy language.  
  "I have directed Flora to accompany you," whispered Lady Ravensworth; "and you can keep her
      altogether, if you choose. Should the young woman whom you have hired, make her appearance, I
      will retain her, and give her a trial. But what is her name? I had forgotten to ask you."  
  Maria gave an answer; but there was such a bustle in the room at the moment and such a
      confused din of many voices, that the name escaped Adeline's ears.  
  Sir Cherry at the same instant led Maria towards the stairs; and in a few minutes the
      carriage, containing the newly-married pair, was rolling away from Ravensworth Hall on its
      journey to Cherry Park in Essex.  
  "I wish I was bound on a similar trip with a   sixth  ," thought Mrs. Berrymenny, as
      she watched from the window the departure of the carriage.  
  "I wish I could get off my   eighth   and   ninth   as easily as the Rossvilles
      have done with Maria," thought the Countess of Brazenphace. "But I am afraid that the member
      for Buyemup-cum-Rhino will not bite."  
  "I wish I had not eulogised the single state in my poems," thought Miss Blewstocken, with a
      profound sigh.  
  "Me wish me shall soon find de agreeable lady dat will make me de von happiest of men," said
      Count Swindeliski to Miss Helena Sophia Alexandrina Wigmore.  
  "After all," said Baron Torkemdef, who had recovered his equanimity, by dint of frequent
      libations, "de marriage only de idea—de fancy, like any oder ting. Dat handsome chariot do not
      actually exist—it only de idea; and dat loving pair what shall sit in it are only idea as
      well. All is idea—me an idea—and dat Lord Bischop wid de lawn-sleeves only an idea."  
  "Where is Lord Ravensworth?" inquired Adeline of a domestic.  
  "His lordship felt suddenly unwell a few moments ago, my lady, and has retired to his
      cabinet."  
  "Ah! a reaction—a recurrence to the meerschaum!" murmured Lady Ravensworth, a cloud passing
      over her brow.  
  "Please your ladyship," said the servant, "a young woman has just arrived from London. She
      says that she was hired by Miss Villiers—I beg pardon Lady Bounce—and that an accident to the
      vehicle in which she came to the Hall has delayed her."  
  "Oh! she is to remain with me," returned Adeline. "Tell her that I will take her into my
      service on the same terms that were arranged between her and Lady Bounce. She is to replace
      Flora."  
  "Very good, my lady;"—and the servant was about to retire.  
  "One moment, William," said Adeline, beckoning him back. "Did this young woman mention her
      name—for as yet I am really ignorant of it?"  
  "Yes, my lady," answered the domestic: "her name is Lydia Hutchinson."  
  And the servant withdrew.  
  "Lydia Hutchinson!" murmured Lady Ravensworth, turning deadly pale, and tottering to a
      seat.  
  "Are you unwell, Adeline?" inquired Lady Rossville, approaching her daughter.  
  "No—a sudden indisposition—it is nothing!" replied Adeline; and she hastened from the
      room.  
  
  CHAPTER CCVI.   THE PATRICIAN LADY AND THE UNFORTUNATE WOMAN.  
  Lady Ravensworth retired to her boudoir; and, throwing herself upon a voluptuous ottoman,
      she burst into a flood of tears.  
  The wife of one of England's wealthiest nobles,—mistress of a splendid mansion and numerous
      household,—young, beautiful, and admired,—with a coronet upon her brow, and all the luxuries
      and pleasures of the world at her command,—this haughty and high-born lady now trembled at the
      idea—now shrunk from the thought—of meeting an obscure young woman who was forced to accept a
      menial place in order to earn her daily bread!  
  It was a strange coincidence that thus brought Lydia Hutchinson beneath the roof of Lady
      Ravensworth, whom the young woman was very far from suspecting to be that same Adeline Enfield
      who had been her companion—nay, her tutoress—in the initiative of wantonness and
      dishonour.  
  Mrs. Chichester had manifested a sisterly kindness towards the unfortunate Lydia; and,
      instead of shrinking in disgust, as so many others would have done, from the young woman who
      had been urged by stern necessity to ply a loathsome trade, she had endeavoured, by the most
      delicate attentions, to reclaim the mind of society's outcast from the dark ocean of despair
      in which it was so profoundly plunged.  
  The reader has doubtless seen that Lydia Hutchinson had never courted vice for vice's sake.
      She was not naturally of a depraved nor lascivious disposition. Circumstances—amongst which
      must be reckoned the treachery exercised by Lord Dunstable to accomplish her seduction, and
      the accident which threw the poor creature upon the tender mercies of Mrs. Harpy,—had
      conspired,—fearfully conspired, to brand her with infamy, and to drag her through the filth
      and mire of the various phases which characterise the downward path of a career of
      prostitution. Necessity had made her what she was!  
  and crime. To reclaim and reinstate, as it were the unfortunate Lydia Hutchinson,
      was Viola Chichester's aim; and the object of this humane solicitude was deeply anxious to
      second, by her own conduct, the intentions of her generous benefactress.  
  As time wore on, Lydia improved greatly in mental condition and personal appearance: her
      thoughts became settled and composed, and her form resumed much of the freshness which had
      characterised her youth. She speedily began to express a desire to exert herself in some
      honest employment to gain her livelihood;—she also felt that indolence and dependence, even in
      the presence of the best moral examples, produce a vitiated frame of mind;—and she revolted
      from the mere idea of a relapse into the horrible path from which a friendly hand had redeemed
      her, as the most appalling catastrophe that her imagination could conceive.  
  Mrs. Chichester felt so persuaded of Lydia's firmness of purpose in pursuing a career of
      rectitude, that she resolved to take a step which only the extreme urgency of the case and a
      settled conviction of the young woman's inclination to do well, could justify. This was to
      obtain her a situation in some family. Lydia was overjoyed at the proposal. An advertisement
      was accordingly inserted in a newspaper; and a few days brought many written answers. Miss
      Villiers—now Lady Bounce—called personally, and was so pleased with Lydia's manner that she
      put no special questions to Mrs. Chichester.  
  Viola, however, addressed Miss Villiers thus:—"The young woman who now stands before you has
      been unfortunate—very unfortunate; and hers has been the fate of the unfortunate. She is most
      anxious to eat the bread of industry and honesty. I am persuaded that a kind hand stretched
      out to aid her in this desire, will raise her to happiness, and ensure her lasting
      gratitude."  
  Miss Villiers was a young lady of an excellent heart: she did not completely understand all
      that Mrs. Chichester meant; but she comprehended enough to render her willing to assist a
      fellow-creature who sought to earn her livelihood honourably, and who seemed to possess the
      necessary qualifications for the employment desired. Thus the bargain was hastily concluded;
      and when Miss Villiers desired Lydia to join her on a certain day at Ravensworth Hall, the
      young woman entertained not the least idea that her school friend Adeline Enfield was Lady
      Ravensworth, the mistress of that lordly habitation.  
  We will now return to Adeline, whom we left weeping in her boudoir.  
  The presence of Lydia in that house was indeed enough to alarm and embarrass her. Not that
      she precisely feared exposure at Lydia's hands in respect to the past—especially as it would
      be so easy to deny any derogatory statement of the kind. But Adeline felt that she should now
      possess a dependant before whom her dignity and self-confidence would ever be overwhelmed by
      the weight of that dread secret of which Lydia's bosom was the depository. Such a prospect was
      most galling—most humiliating—most degrading to the mind of the haughty peeress.  
  "But of what avail are tears?" said Adeline, suddenly. "The danger is here—the evil is
      before me. We must meet:—it were better that I should see her at once! Doubtless she is
      unaware in whose abode she is now a menial!"  
  Adeline wiped her eyes, rang the bell, and reseating herself, assumed as composed a manner
      as possible under the circumstances.  
  In a few moments she heard footsteps approaching.  
  "This is my lady's apartment," said the housekeeper in the passage.  
  "Thank you," replied another voice.  
  Oh! how Adeline's heart beat,—the well-remembered tones of Lydia Hutchinson had just met her
      ears.  
  Then she heard the retreating sounds of the housekeeper's footsteps; and there was a gentle
      knock at the door of their boudoir.  
  "Come in," said Adeline, in a half-stifling voice.  
  The door opened, and Lydia Hutchinson entered the room.  
  Lady Ravensworth's countenance was averted towards the fire; and it was not until she heard
      the door close that she turned towards Lydia, who was in a state of trembling anxiety, mingled
      with curiosity, as to what might be the disposition of her mistress.  
  But no pen can describe the astonishment of the young woman, when by that pale but beautiful
      countenance, which was now suddenly turned towards her, she recognised her whom she had so
      much reason never to forget.  
  Staggering towards the mantel for support, and with her eyes fixed almost wildly upon her
      mistress, she exclaimed, "Miss Enfield! Is it indeed you?"  
  "I am Lady Ravensworth," was the somewhat haughty answer.  
  "Oh! now I understand it all!" cried Lydia, an expression of sincere gratitude animating her
      countenance, while she clasped her hands fervently together: "you have taken compassion on me
      at length,—you discovered where I was residing,—you sent some friend to engage me as if for
      herself,—and you were determined to surprise me by this proof of your goodness—this token of
      your kind remembrance of me!"  
  "No," returned Adeline: "accident alone has brought you into my service: and you must well
      understand that I am not over well pleased with the coincidence. In a word, name the sum that
      will satisfy you for the loss of a good place—and take your departure. You can leave to me the
      invention of some proper excuse——"  
  "Is it possible?" ejaculated Lydia; "this cold—heartless—ungrateful reception——"  
  "Do you recollect to whom you are speaking?" demanded Adeline, the colour mounting to her
      cheeks.  
  "Oh! yes,—I know that full well—too well," said Lydia, again clasping her hands, and casting
      her eyes upwards, as if in appeal to heaven against the ingratitude of the world. "I stand in
      the presence of one to save whose good fame I sacrificed my own—to shield whom from the finger
      of scorn and reproach, I allowed myself to be made a victim! Yes, proud lady of Ravensworth—so
      many years have not elapsed since, in my cold and cheerless garret, in the depth of a winter
      night, you gave birth——"  
  "Silence, Lydia!" ejaculated Adeline, her lips quivering, and the colour coming and going on
      her cheeks with rapid alternations. "Let us not refer to the past. The present——"  
  "No," interrupted Lydia, in a solemn tone: "you   can   not—you   shall  myself, that it is almost impossible for you to shape the least—the faintest—the
      most remote idea of the depth of misery into which I have been plunged. And yet I pant—I
      long—I feel a burning desire to make you comprehend all I have suffered;—because to my
      acquaintance with you—to my fatal connexion with you at the seminary—may be traced all the
      sorrows—the profound, ineffable woes—the degradations—the terrible afflictions that have since
      marked my career!"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I will not hear more;—I cannot permit you thus to insult—to upbraid me," faltered Lady
      Ravensworth, her bosom agitated with the most cruel emotions.  
  "Oh! I have longed for this opportunity to meet you face to face, and tell you all I have
      suffered, and all I now feel!" exclaimed Lydia; "and it is not likely that I will abandon so
      favourable an occasion. No—you have triumphed over me long enough: you have used me as a tool
      when it suited your convenience—and you spurned me when I had ceased to be useful. Though
      maintaining your own outward respectability, honour, and good name upon the wreck of mine, you
      dare to treat me with the blackest ingratitude! Lady Ravensworth, I said that all I have
      endured was traceable to you! When I first met you at the Kensington seminary, I was pure,
      artless, innocent:—you were already initiated in the secrets of intrigue—you were even then,
      at that tender age, a wanton in your heart."  
  "Lydia—Miss Hutchinson! Oh! my God!" exclaimed Adeline, covering her face with her
      hands.  
  "Yes—you were already trembling on the verge of dishonour—you were courting seduction and
      all its consequences!" continued the unfortunate woman, upbraiding that proud peeress with a
      remorselessness, a bitterness, and a feeling of delighted vengeance that made her language the
      more terrible and its effect more overwhelming. "I even remember still—oh! how well I
      remember—that you were the first who opened my eyes to the existence of female frailty. Yes—I,
      who went to that school as a teacher, was taught by a pupil! And merciful heavens! what did
      you teach me? You led me on step by step in the path of duplicity and dishonour: you made me
      the companion of your own amours; and we became victims to our seducers on the same day!"  
  "Oh! spare me—spare me!" moaned Adeline. "My God! if we were overheard! I should
      be lost—ruined—undone!"  
  "Rest tranquil on that head:—it does not suit my present purposes to betray you—and I will
      explain my reason shortly. In the meantime," continued Lydia Hutchinson, "I must recall to
      your recollection all those circumstances which led me to sacrifice myself to save you."  
  "No—no: I remember everything. Say no more, Lydia," cried Lady Ravensworth. "Tell me what
      you require—what I can do for you! Will you have money? or——"  
  "Peace!—silence!" said Lydia, eyeing the patrician lady with a glance of ineffable scorn.
      "Oh!" she added, almost wildly, "I   have   sold myself for gold;—but never—never may
      that occur again; either bodily or morally! Your ladyship declares you remember all that has
      ever passed between us? Then does your ingratitude become infinitely the more vile and
      contemptible. For when you lay writhing in the agonies of maternity, I was there,—there in
      that cold and cheerless garret,—to minister unto you! And when the lifeless form of your babe
      was discovered concealed amongst my clothes—in my room—and in my box,—I did not turn to the
      school-mistress and say, '  It is not mine: it is Miss Adeline Enfield's!  '—When, too, I
      saw that you were so weak, so feeble, and so suffering that the cold night air would kill you,
      I took your child, and, like a thief, I stole away from the house to sink the corpse in a
      distant pool. For you had said to me, '  Keep my secret, dearest Lydia: the honour of a
       noble family depends upon your prudence!  '—My prudence! Oh! no:—the honour of your family
      depended on the sacrifice of   mine  ! And I   did   sacrifice my family to save
      you;—for to all that I did for you may be traced the broken heart of my poor father and the
      assassination of my brother by the hand of the duellist!"  
  "Oh! spare me—spare me!" again exclaimed Lady Ravensworth. "I have been very ungrateful—very
      unkind; but now, Lydia, I will endeavour to compensate you for all that has passed."  
  "One being alone can so compensate me, lady," said Miss Hutchinson in a solemn tone; "and
      that being is God! No human power can give me back my poor father or my much-loved brother: no
      human agency can obliterate from my mind those infamies and degradations to which I have been
      subject. What amount of gold can reward me for days of starvation and nights of painful
      wanderings amidst the creatures of crime, without a place to repose my aching, shivering
      limbs? And sometimes, amidst the overwhelming crowd of sorrows that so often drove me to the
      river's bank, or made me pause on the threshold of the chemist's-shop where poison was to be
      procured,—I saw, from time to time, your name mentioned in the newspapers. Oh! what memories
      did those occasions recall! On the very day that you were presented at Court, I had not a
      crust to eat! And twice on that day did I seek the river's brink, whence I turned away
      again—afraid of changing even the horrible certainties of this life's sufferings for the more
      appalling uncertainties of another world."  
  "Lydia—Lydia, you are killing me!" exclaimed Lady Ravensworth. "Pity me—if not for myself,
      for the sake of the innocent child which I bear in my bosom. Tell me what I can do for
      you—what you require——"  
  "My views are soon explained," interrupted Lydia. "I demand permission to remain in the
      service of your ladyship."  
  "Oh! no—no: impossible!" said Adeline, in an imploring tone.  
  "It must be as I say," observed Lydia, coolly.  
  "Insolent menial!" ejaculated Lady Ravensworth, losing all command over herself. "Leave
      me—quit this house—go——"  
  "Do you dare me?" said Miss Hutchinson. "I assured your ladyship ere now that it did not
      suit my present plans to expose you; because I seek to remain in your service. But, if you
      essay again to triumph over me—to spurn me from your presence—I will, remorselessly and
      fearlessly, proclaim the past."  
  "And who will believe you?" cried Adeline, trembling with mingled alarm and rage: "who will
      believe you? The whole world will denounce you as an impostress. Nay—more: I will punish
      you—yes, I will punish you for your insolence! I will declare that you have attempted to
      extort money from me by means of the most diabolical threats——"  
  "Think not that I am to be intimidated by your ladyship's miserable subterfuges,"
      interrupted Lydia, who grew if possible more cold and contemptuous in her manner in proportion
      as the proud patrician became excited and indignant. "Are there no witnesses to speak to
      collateral faces? Could Cholmondeley and Dunstable prove nothing against you?"  
  "They would not raise their voices against a noble lady's fame," said Adeline,
      impatiently.  
  "They would speak the truth when placed on their oaths in a court of justice," exclaimed
      Lydia, confidently; "for it is to a court of justice that your ladyship threatens to drag me.
      And now, proud peeress, I dare you to the public investigation! Throw open the door—summon
      your domestics—send me to a gaol!—but the day of fair and searching scrutiny must come—and I
      should await in confidence the reply that a British judge and a British jury would give to the
      vile calumny of even a lady so highly exalted as yourself!"  
  "Enough!" cried Adeline, now almost purple with rage, and every vein on her forehead swollen
      almost to bursting. "I accept your challenge—for I well know that I can rely upon the honour
      of Lord Dunstable and Colonel Cholmondeley. Yes—yes: they would sooner perjure themselves than
      attaint the honour of a peeress!"  
  "There is one other consideration, then," said Lydia, still completely unruffled: "and
      perhaps the ingenuity of your ladyship will devise a means of frustrating that test also."  
  "To what do you allude?" demanded Adeline.  
  "I mean that when you summon your domestics to drag me to a gaol on a charge of extortion,"
      replied Lydia, contemptuously, "that moment do I proclaim the history of the past! Then will
      medical experience speedily prove whether Lady Ravensworth now bears   her first child  
      in her bosom!"  
  Adeline uttered a faint shriek, and fell back upon the sofa, overwhelmed by this dread
      menace.  
  That shriek was accompanied by a low moan that seemed to come from the passage outside.  
  Lydia hastened towards the door; but ere she had half crossed the room, it was thrown
      violently open, and Lord Ravensworth entered the boudoir.  
  "My husband!" screamed Adeline, in a frantic tone: then, flinging herself on her
      knees before him, she cried, "Mercy! mercy!"  
  
  CHAPTER CCVII.   THE HUSBAND, THE WIFE, AND THE UNFORTUNATE WOMAN.  
  "Mercy! mercy!" were the words that burst from the lips of the affrighted lady, ere she
      paused to reflect whether the preceding conversation had been overheard or not.  
  "Rise," said Lord Ravensworth, his quivering lip, flashing eye, hectic cheek, heaving chest,
      and clenched hand denoting a more powerful excitement than he had experienced for a long, long
      time. "Rise, madam: this is a subject which cannot be disposed of in passionate
      ejaculations;—it requires a calmer deliberation—for the honour of two noble families is now at
      stake!"  
  "Then you know all!" cried Adeline, in an agonising tone, as she embraced her husband's
      knees.  
  "Yes—I overheard enough to enable me to comprehend the whole truth," returned the nobleman,
      who for the time being seemed to have altogether thrown off the apathetic lethargy which had
      characterised him lately with such few intermissions.  
  Then, as he was yet speaking, he forcibly raised his wife from her suppliant position, and
      placed her upon the ottoman.  
  Taking a chair near her, he pointed to another, and, glancing towards Lydia, said in a tone
      rather mournful than angry, "Young woman, be seated."  
  Lydia obeyed mechanically; for she herself was alarmed at the serious turn which the affair
      had taken.  
  "Adeline," said the nobleman, after a short pause, during which he evidently endeavoured to
      compose his feelings as much as possible, "before we enter upon this sad topic, I must in
      justice to myself observe that I did not seek your chamber to play the eaves-dropper. I felt
      unwell in the drawing-room ere now, and I retired to my own cabinet to solace myself in the
      usual manner with the meerschaum. But it struck me that I   had   been better during all
      the early part of the morning than for some weeks past; and, after a long struggle with
      myself, I resolved to renounce the pipe. On my return to the drawing-room, I heard that you
      were suddenly indisposed; and I came hither to inquire after you. But at the moment I reached
      your door, I overheard words which struck me as with a thunderbolt. Then I listened—and
      overheard much—too much!"  
  "And now you hate—you despise me!" cried Adeline, wildly: "you will thrust me forth from
      your dwelling—you will cover me with shame! No—no," she added hysterically, "death—death
      before such a fate!"  
  "Calm yourself, Adeline," said Lord Ravensworth, who evidently suppressed his own feelings
      with great difficulty: "I before observed that there is the honour of   two   families to
      preserve—that of Rossville and of Ravensworth. Give me your Bible."  
  "My Bible!" exclaimed Adeline, in astonishment mingled with alarm.  
  "Yes—your Bible. Where is it?"  
  "There—there!" said Adeline in a faint tone—for she was at a loss to divine the meaning or
      intention of her husband; and that mysterious uncertainty filled her with vague fears.  
  Lydia rose, and taking the Bible from a small book-case to which Lady Ravensworth pointed,
      handed it to the nobleman.  
  "Will you swear, Adeline," he said, in a solemn and impressive tone,—"will you swear upon
      this volume which contains the Word of God, that the child you now bear in your bosom is mine,
      and that since your marriage you have never forgotten the fidelity due to a husband? Will you
      swear this, Adeline?"  
  "I will—I will!" she exclaimed, in almost a joyful tone, as if she were satisfied that her
      conjugal faith should be put to such a test.  
  "Swear, then," said Lord Ravensworth; "and invoke God to cast you dead—dead this minute at
      my feet—if you swear falsely."  
  "I do—I do!" cried Lady Ravensworth: then, taking the holy volume in her hand, she said in a
      calmer and more measured tone, "I swear, as I hope for future salvation, that I have never
      been unfaithful, even in thought, to my marriage vow, and that the child I bear in my bosom is
      my husband's. This I swear by every thing sacred and holy; and if I have sworn falsely, may
      the great God cast me dead at your feet."  
  She then kissed the book.  
  There was a solemn pause:—Lady Ravensworth was now perhaps the most composed of the three,
      for she saw that her husband was satisfied in all that concerned his own honour since the day
      he had led her to the altar.  
  As for Lydia—she was overawed and even alarmed at that imposing ceremony of a husband
      administering an oath to his wife; and Lord Ravensworth remained for some moments absorbed in
      deep thought.  
  "Yes," he suddenly exclaimed, as if continuing aloud the thread of his silent thoughts,—"the
      honour of two families must be preserved! And, after all,—perhaps I am rightly served! A man
      of my years should have sought a partner of a fitting age; but it is the fault—the error—the
      curse of elderly men to believe that their rank and wealth warrant them in seeking some young
      girl who may thus become as it were a victim. Then mothers take advantage of that longing to
      obtain a wife of comparatively tender years; and those worldly-minded parents——"  
  "My lord—my lord, spare my feelings!" ejaculated Adeline, now painfully excited. "My mother
      knew not of her daughter's frailty——"  
  "Well—enough on that head!" said Lord Ravensworth, somewhat impatiently. "The past cannot be
      recalled: let us secure the honour of the future. You have erred in your girlhood, Adeline!
      and there," he added, indicating Lydia, "is one who knows that sad secret. You have been
      ungrateful to her—by   her   accusations and   your   acknowledgment; and she holds
      you in her power. Not   you   alone:—but she holds   your   family and
        mine  —for an exposure would create a scandal that must redound upon us all!"  
  "I have no wish to avail myself of the possession of that secret for such an object," said
      Lydia. "I have two motives for desiring to remain at least a year in her ladyship's
      service."  
  "Never!" cried Adeline, emphatically. "It is you who have made all this mischief!"  
  sternly; then, turning towards Lydia, he added, "Young woman, proceed—and speak
      frankly."  
  "I stated that I had two objects to serve in being anxious to remain in her ladyship's
      service for one year," continued Lydia. "In the first place, I have been so unfortunate—so
      very, very miserable, that I wish to earn my livelihood by servitude; and it is my hope to
      remain here until her ladyship can conscientiously give me such a character as will ensure me
      a good situation elsewhere."  
  "That is naturally understood," observed Lord Ravensworth. "What is your second motive?"  
  "My second motive!" repeated Lydia, with the least accent of bitterness: "oh! that I will
      explain to her ladyship in private—and she will be satisfied!"  
  "Now listen to me," said the nobleman. "Lady Ravensworth dislikes the idea that you should
      remain here. I will give you the means of settling yourself comfortably for life, if you will
      leave forthwith, and promise solemnly to preserve that fatal secret which you possess."  
  "My lord," answered Lydia, respectfully but firmly, "I return you my most sincere thanks for
      that bounteous offer which I am compelled to decline. Were I to accept your lordship's
      conditions, my aims would not be answered. In respect to my first object, I have determined to
      earn a character that may to some extent retrieve the past;—for, as your lordship must have
      gathered from the conversation which you overheard, I have been unfortunate—very
      unfortunate!"  
  "Merciful heavens!" exclaimed Adeline; "how can I retain you in my service? You have
      belonged to a class—oh! no—it is impossible—impossible!"  
  "I do not wish to insult your feelings, young woman," said Lord Ravensworth; "especially
      since you manifest so praiseworthy a desire to retrieve your character. But you must perceive
      the impossibility, as her ladyship observes, of retaining you in our service. You might be
      known—recognised——"  
  "I understand your lordship," interrupted Lydia, bitterly; "I might be recognised as an
      unhappy creature who had once earned a livelihood by parading the public streets. That is
      scarcely probable:—I am much changed since then. The kindness of an excellent lady has enabled
      me to recruit my strength and to recover a healthy appearance. Yes—I must be altered; for your
      lordship does not perceive in me the poor miserable starving wretch who some few months since
      accosted her ladyship in Saint James's Street."  
  "Ah! I recollect," exclaimed the nobleman, as the incident flashed to his mind. "I only
      observed you for a moment on that occasion; but still—so miserable was your appearance—it made
      an impression on my mind. Yes—you are indeed changed! Nevertheless, those who saw you in an
      unhappy career, before you became so reduced as you were on the occasion which you have
      mentioned, might recognise you. And—pardon my frankness, young woman; but the subject admits
      not of the measurement of words—what would be thought of me—of my wife—of all the other
      members of my household——"  
  "If I were seen in your establishment, your lordship would add," exclaimed Lydia. "I admit
      the truth of all your lordship states: still my wish to remain a member of that establishment
      is unchanged. For—as your lordship may have ere now gathered from our conversation—it was her
      ladyship who first placed me in those paths which led to my ruin; and it must be her ladyship
      who shall aid me in earning an honourable character once more."  
  "But this punishment is too severe!" exclaimed Adeline, almost wringing her hands; for she
      perceived how completely the honour of two families was in Lydia's power.  
  "Consider, I implore you, the position of my wife," said the nobleman: "in a few weeks she
      will become a mother!"  
  "My lord, her ladyship never had any consideration for me, from the first moment that I
      ceased to be useful to her," returned Lydia, with inexorable firmness; "and I cannot consent
      to sacrifice what I consider to be my own interests to her ladyship's wishes now."  
  Then Lydia Hutchinson rose, as if to intimate that her determination was unchangeable; and
      that obscure girl was enabled to dictate her own terms to the noble peer and the proud
      peeress.  
  "It must be so, then—it must be so," said Lord Ravensworth, with a vexation of manner which
      he could not conceal. "You shall have an apartment in my establishment and handsome wages:—all
      I exact is that you do not force your attentions on her ladyship save when she demands
      them."  
  "If I remain here, it must be in the capacity of her ladyship's principal attendant,"
      returned Lydia: "otherwise I could not fairly earn a good character in the eyes of the other
      dependants of your lordship."  
  "Perdition! young woman," exclaimed the nobleman; "you demand too much!"  
  "More than I will ever concede," added Lady Ravensworth, unable to restrain a glance of
      malignity and desperate hate towards Lydia Hutchinson.  
  "Then your lordship will permit me to take my departure," said she, calmly; and she moved
      towards the door.  
  "My God! she will reveal every thing!" almost shrieked Lady Ravensworth.  
  "Yes—every thing," said Lydia, returning the look which Adeline had cast on her a few
      moments before.  
  "Stay, young woman—this may not be!" ejaculated Lord Ravensworth. "You exercise your power
      with a fearful despotism."  
  "The world has been a fearful despot towards me, my lord," was the firm but calm reply.  
  "And with your tyranny in this respect you will kill my wife—kill my yet unborn child!"
      exclaimed the nobleman, rising from his seat and pacing the room in a state of desperate
      excitement. "But the honour of the Rossvilles and the Ravensworths must be preserved—at any
      sacrifice—at any risk!—Yes—though you bring misery into this house, here must you remain—since
      such is your inflexible will. Were an exposure to take place, the consequences—my God! would
      be awful—crushing! The finger of ridicule and scorn would point at me—the elderly man who
      espoused the young and beautiful girl, and who was so proud that he had won her for a wife!
      And then—should the child of which she is so soon to become a mother, prove a son—although the
      law would recognise him as the heir to my name and fortune, yet the scandalous world would
      throw doubts, perhaps, on his legitimacy. Ah! the thought is maddening! And my brother—my
      brother too——"  
  checked himself, for the convulsive sobs which came from his wife's lips suddenly
      reminded him that every word he was uttering pierced like a dagger into her soul.  
  "Oh! God have mercy upon me!" she exclaimed, in a voice scarcely audible through the
      convulsions of her grief: "how dearly—dearly am I now paying for the errors of my youth!"  
  "Does that sight not move you, woman?" muttered the nobleman between his grinding teeth, as
      he accosted Lydia, and pointed to the lamentable condition of his wife.  
  "My lord, I lost all by serving the interests of her who is now Lady Ravensworth; and it is
      time that I should think only of my own."  
  This reply was given with a frigid—stern—and inexorable calmness, that struck despair to the
      heart of the unhappy nobleman and his still more wretched wife.  
  "Then be it all as you say—be it all as you wish, despotic woman!" cried Lord Ravensworth.
      "Remain here—command us all—drive us to despair—for our honour is unhappily in your
      remorseless hands."  
  With these words, the nobleman rushed from the room in a state bordering on distraction.  
  A few minutes of profound silence elapsed.  
  Lydia remained standing near the mantel, gazing with joyful triumph on Adeline, whose head
      was buried in her hands, and whose bosom gave vent to convulsive sobs.  
  Suddenly Lady Ravensworth looked up, and gazed wildly around her.  
  "He is gone—and you are still there!" she said, in a low and hoarse voice. "Now we are alone
      together—and doubtless I am to look upon you as one determined to drive me to despair. What
      other motive had you for insisting upon remaining here?"  
  "Lady, I will now explain myself," returned Lydia, speaking slowly and solemnly. "It pierced
      me to the heart to cause so much grief to that good nobleman, of whom you are so utterly
      unworthy; but for you I have no kind consideration—no mercy. Adeline, I hate you—I loathe
      you—I detest you!"  
  "Merciful heavens!" exclaimed Lady Ravensworth: "and you are to be constantly about my
      person!"  
  "Yes: and my second motive for remaining here to enjoy that privilege," continued Lydia,
      bitterly, "is   vengeance  !"  
  "Vengeance!" repeated Adeline, recoiling as it were from the terrible word, and clasping her
      hands franticly together.  
  "Vengeance—vengeance!" continued Lydia Hutchinson. "Before the rest of the world I shall
      appear the humble and respectful dependant—yes, even in the presence of your husband. But when
      alone with you, I shall prove a very demon, whose weapons are galling reproaches, ignominies,
      insults, and indignities."  
  "Oh! this is terrible!" cried Adeline, as if her senses were leaving her. "You cannot be
      such a fiend."  
  "I can—I will!" returned Lydia. "Have I not undergone enough to make me so? And all was
      occasioned by   you  ! When I was your wretched tool, you promised me the affection of a
      sister; and how did you fulfil your pledge? You came to me at a house where I was a governess,
      and whence I was anxious to remove from the importunities of the master; and there you threw
      off the mask. I then saw the hollowness of your soul. My father died of a broken heart, and my
      brother perished in a duel, in consequence of my iniquity. But who had made me criminal?
         You!   I called upon you at Rossville House at a time when a little sympathy on your
      part might have still saved me; for I should have felt that I had   one friend   still
      left. But you scorned me—you even menaced me; and I then warned you that I was absolved from
      all motives of secrecy on your account. Your black ingratitude drove me to despair; and I
      immediately afterwards fell to the lowest grade in the social sphere—that of a prostitute!
      Yes—for I need use no nice language with you. All the miseries I endured in my wretched career
      I charge upon your head. And ere now you menaced me again: you threatened to accuse me falsely
      of a crime that would render me amenable to the criminal tribunals of the country. It only
      required   that   to fill the cup of your base ingratitude to the very brim. And think
      you that your malignant—your spiteful glances,—your looks of bitter, burning hate,—were lost
      upon me? No—you would doubtless assassinate me, if you dared! Oh! I have long detested
      you—long loathed your very name! But, never—never, until we met in this room ere now, did I
      believe that my hatred against you was so virulent as it is. And never—never until this hour
      did I appreciate the sweets of vengeance. At present I can revel in those feelings:—I can
      wreak upon you—and I   will  —that revenge which my own miseries and the death of those
      whom I held dear have excited in my heart! Your ladyship now knows the terms of our connexion,
      for one year; and at the expiration of that period you will be glad—Oh! too glad to rid
      yourself of me by giving me a character that will never fail to procure for me a place in
      future."  
  With these words Lydia Hutchinson left the room.  
  Lady Ravensworth sank back in convulsions of anguish upon the ottoman.  
  And Lord Ravensworth,—who throughout the morning had experienced so much lightness of heart
      and mental calmness that he resolved to wrestle in future with that apathy and gloom which
      drove him to his pipe,—had shut himself up in his private cabinet, to seek solace once more in
      the fatal attractions of the oriental tobacco.  
  Thus had the presence of Lydia Hutchinson,—once despised, scorned, and trampled on,—brought
      desolation and misery into that lordly dwelling.  
  O Adeline, Adeline! thou wast now taught a bitter lesson illustrative of the terrible
      consequences of ingratitude!  
  The aristocracy conceives that it may insult the democracy with impunity. The high-born and
      the wealthy never stop to consider, when they put an affront upon the lowly and the poor,
      whether a day of retribution may not sooner or later come. The peer cannot see the necessity
      of conciliating the peasant: the daughter of the nobility knows not the use of making a friend
      of the daughter of the people.  
  would be welcome as the drop of water to the lost wanderer of the desert.  
  Yes! Most solemnly do I proclaim to you, O suffering millions of these islands, that ye
      shall not always languish beneath the yoke of your oppressors! Individually ye shall each see
      the day when your tyrant shall crouch at your feet; and as a mass ye shall triumph over that
      proud oligarchy which now grinds you to the dust!  
  That day—that great day cannot be far distant; and then shall ye rise—not to wreak a savage
      vengeance on those who have so long coerced you, but to prove to them that ye know how to
      exercise a mercy which they never manifested towards you;—ye shall rise, not to convulse the
      State with a disastrous civil war, nor to hurry the nation on to the deplorable catastrophe of
      social anarchy, confusion, and bloodshed;—but ye shall rise to vindicate usurped rights, and
      to recover delegated and misused power, that ye may triumphantly assert the aristocracy of
      mind, and the aristocracy of virtue!  
  
  CHAPTER CCVIII.   THE RESURRECTION MAN'S HOUSE IN GLOBE TOWN.  
  Return we to the house of the Resurrection Man in Globe Town,—that house where we have
      already seen such diabolical mischief concocted, and much of which was actually
      perpetrated,—that house where the gloomy subterraneans had echoed to the moans of Viola
      Chichester!  
  It was about seven o'clock in the evening, when the Resurrection Man suddenly emerged from
      that very same cell in which Viola had once been confined.  
  He held a lantern in his hand; and the feeble rays glanced upon a countenance convulsed and
      distorted with deep, malignant rage.  
  On the threshold of the dungeon he paused for a moment; and turning towards the interior of
      that living tomb, he growled in a savage tone, "By all the powers of hell! I'll find means to
      cure you of this obstinacy."  
  A hoarse and stifled moan was the only answer.  
  "Then try another night of it!" exclaimed the Resurrection Man.  
  And he closed the door violently.  
  The heavy bolt grated upon the ears of another victim to the remorseless cruelty of this
      fiend-like miscreant!  
  Muttering maledictions to himself, the Resurrection Man slowly left the subterranean, and
      extinguishing his lantern, secured the doors of the lower part of his dwelling.  
  As he was about to ascend the steep staircase leading to the upper floor, a person in the
      street called after him in a low and tremulous tone, "Mr. Tidkins! Mr. Tidkins! is that
      you?"  
  "Rather so," replied the Resurrection Man, who had immediately recognised the voice; "walk
      up, Mr. Tomlinson."  
  "I—I—if you have no objection," stammered the stock-broker, who evidently had some cause of
      alarm, "I would much prefer—that is, I should like to speak to you down here; because my time
      is precious—and——"  
  "And you are afraid to trust yourself with me," added the Resurrection Man, gruffly. "Why,
      what an infernal fool you must be! I don't suppose that you've come with your pockets full of
      gold: and, if you haven't, you certainly ain't worth robbing and murdering. So, walk up, I
      say—and no more of this gammon. Shut the door, and bolt it after you."  
  The stock-broker did not like to offer any farther objection, so deep was his dread of
      irritating a man of whom he entertained a vague and horrible apprehension.  
  He accordingly closed the door, and followed Tidkins up the precipitate steps to the back
      room on the first floor: for the Resurrection Man had converted this one into his parlour, to
      avoid the necessity of having a light in the front chamber, the windows of which looked upon
      the street—the miscreant being compelled to adopt as many precautions as possible to prevent
      his numerous enemies from discovering a trace of his whereabouts.  
  "Sit down, and don't be afraid, Mr. Tomlinson," said Tidkins. "There, sir—draw near the
      fire; and here's brandy, rum, or gin, if you like to take any thing."  
  "Nothing, I thank you," faltered the stock-broker, casting a hurried glance of alarm around
      him as he sank upon a chair. "You wrote to desire me to call this evening—at seven o'clock—or
      I might repent——"  
  "Yes—and so you would repent the consequences," added the Resurrection Man. "But, as you
      have come, it is all right. I dare say you thought I had forgotten you: you were deceived, you
      see; for I never lose sight of old friends. When I want to use them, I am sure to find them
      out again."  
  "And what can I do for you, Mr. Tidkins?" asked the stock-broker, in a tremulous tone; for
      he felt a desperate alarm lest the Resurrection Man should have discovered   the one
       secret   which he had taken so much pains to conceal—the secret of the abode of old
      Michael Martin.  
  "I have but two wants in the world at any time," answered the Resurrection Man, lighting his
      pipe: "money most often—vengeance now and then. But it is money that I want of you."  
  "Money—money!" murmured Tomlinson: "do you think I am made of money? I have had hard
      struggles—losses—expenses——"  
  "I dare say you have," observed the Resurrection Man, drily. "I do not mean to be hard upon
      you; but something I must have. You see, I have got a little amount put by—how obtained is
      neither here nor there; and I want to scrape together as much as I can, so that in a few
      months, when I have settled the different matters I have on hand, I may leave England for
      America, or some such place; and then you will never hear of me any more."  
  "That will be a great blessing," thought Tomlinson; but he did not say so.  
  "And under all circumstances, you must help me to make up the sum I want," added the
      Resurrection Man.  
  "You are too hard upon me, Mr. Tidkins," said Tomlinson. "If I had employed you on any
      business, it would be different: but——"  
  "But if you have a secret that I have found out, and that's worth keeping?" exclaimed
      Tidkins, significantly.  
  through which a sudden pain seemed to shoot, producing a sensation as of
      tightness on the brain. "Surely this man must be Satan himself, who comes at intervals to goad
      the wicked to desperation for their sins!"  
  "What's that you say about Satan?" asked Tidkins.  
  "Nothing—nothing," replied the stock-broker, hastily: "I was only thinking to myself that
      Satan took a delight in persecuting me."  
  "I know nothing about that," observed the Resurrection Man. "All I care for is the cash that
      you will have the goodness to bring me down to-morrow evening at this same hour."  
  A sudden idea struck Tomlinson. Was the Resurrection Man really acquainted with Martin's
      present place of abode? or was he endeavouring to extort money merely upon the strength of his
      knowledge, some time previously obtained (as our readers will remember), that the old clerk,
      though generally believed to have absconded, had actually remained concealed in London?  
  "But wherefore should you press me in this way?" said the stock-broker. "Did I not satisfy
      your demands on a former occasion?"  
  "And have I not kept my pledge?" cried Tidkins. "Has a word ever escaped my lips to do you
      an injury? Why, there is still a reward of three thousand pounds to be got——"  
  "No—no," interrupted Tomlinson; "you are wrong. My affairs are all wound up in respect to
      the bank—and a dividend has been paid."  
  "A precious small one, I'll be bound," observed Tidkins. "However,—reward or no reward,—it
      wouldn't place you in a very comfortable situation if I was to take a policeman with me, and
      just call at a particular house in Thomas Street, where an old gentleman named Nelson——"  
  "Enough!" cried Tomlinson: "I see you know all. My God! when shall I be released from this
      peril? when shall I know a moment's comfort?"  
  "When you've brought me down a couple of hundred pounds to-morrow night," answered the
      Resurrection Man, knocking out the ashes from his pipe. "And, then—if you like to make it
      worth my while—I tell you what I'll do for you."  
  "What?" asked the stock-broker, gasping for breath.  
  "I'll entice the old fellow down here, and either lock him up in one of my cells, or else
      settle his hash in such a way that he shall only be fit to sell to the surgeons," returned the
      Resurrection Man, fixing his snake-like eyes on the stock-broker's countenance, as if to
      ascertain the precise impression which this proposal made.  
  "Monster!" ejaculated Tomlinson, shrinking from the bare idea of such an atrocity—for he was
      more or less attached to Michael Martin, in consequence of the immense sacrifice which the old
      man had made on his account: "no—never will I imbrue my hands with blood, nor suborn another
      to play the assassin's part for me! To-morrow evening you shall receive the amount you demand;
      and heaven grant that all connexion between us may cease."  
  "Be it so," observed the Resurrection Man, coolly, as he brewed himself a glass of grog.  
  "You have nothing more to say to me?" asked Tomlinson, rising to depart.  
  The reply was a negative; and the stock-broker hurried away from a dwelling where crime
      seemed to proclaim its presence trumpet-tongued,—where every look that eyes shot forth, and
      every word that lips uttered, and every thought that brains conceived—all, all appeared to
      feel the noxious atmosphere of blackest turpitude.  
  In a house where a person has lately died, every thing seems to exhale a sickly odour as of
      a corpse; and if you touch the wall with your finger, you feel a clammy and fetid moisture
      which makes your blood run cold within you. So was it with the dwelling of the Resurrection
      Man: the taint of crime impregnated the very atmosphere; and Tomlinson shook himself when he
      gained the open air, as if he could thus throw off some pestilential influence which had
      seized hold of him.  
  Tomlinson had not left the house many minutes, when a low, but peculiar knock at the door
      brought the Resurrection Man down to answer the summons.  
  "Who is it?" he demanded, ere he opened.  
  "Me," growled a voice which Tidkins immediately recognised to be that of the Lully Prig.  
  This individual was forthwith admitted; and when the two villains were seated by the fire in
      the back room, the Resurrection Man asked "What news?"  
  "Just as you wished," was the reply. "I called at the chandlery shop in Pitfield Street,
      Hoxton, and axed for a nounce of bakker. The woman served me; and I soon see that she was
      alone. Then says I, '  If so be no one's within 'earing, I want a word with you  .'—She
      looked frightened, but said nothing wotsomever.—'  All I have to tell you is just
      this  ,' says I: '  Tony Tidkins knows where you be and all about you. But he says, says
       he, that if you take no notice of him in case you sees him, and says nothing to nobody in
       case you 'ears of him, he'll leave you alone.  '—Lor! how she did turn pale and tremble
      when I mentioned your name; and she seemed so glad when I told her that you wouldn't do her no
      harm, if so be she didn't try to do you none.—'  If he won't come near me, I'll never even
       breathe his name  ,' she says.—'  And you'll never utter a word about the crib in Globe
       Town  ,' says I.—'  Never, never  ,' says she.—'  Well, then  ,' says I,
       '  all will go on well; and you can sleep as sound in your bed as if there wasn't such a
       man as Tony Tidkins in the world. But if so be you peaches, or says a word  ,' says I,
       '  that may get Tony into trouble, he's got plenty of friends as will awenge him, and the
       fust is me  .'—So she swore eyes and limbs, she'd keep all close; and in that way I left
      her."  
  "So far, so good," observed the Resurrection Man. "She's frightened, and will keep a close
      tongue. That's all I want. When I have finished the different things I have in hand, and don't
      care about staying in London any longer, I will punish her for what she did to me. But my
      revenge will keep for the present. Now, what about Crankey Jem?"  
  "He still lives in the court in Drury Lane, and stays at home all day," answered the Lully
      Prig. "But at night he goes out for some hours, and I can't find out where. For three evenin's
      follering I watched him; and every time I missed him at last somehow or another."  
  "Which way did he go?" demanded the Resurrection Man.  
  "Different ways—but always up one street and down another—now here, then there, as if he
      hadn't no partickler motive, but merely went out a walkin' for the fun of it."  
  "I tell you what it is, Lully," said the Resurrection Man, gloomily, "you're not
      so wide awake as I am. That fellow has some object in wandering about zigzag and crosswise in
      that manner. He has got a scent of me; and he's following it up. But at the same time he's
      afraid that I may have a scent of him; and so he dodges about. It's as clear as
      day-light—'cause it's just what I should do."  
  "And you're a downy cove enough, Tony," observed the Lully Prig; "although I do think arter
      all you've let that damned parley-woo French feller do us about them Bank notes."  
  "It's very strange the Buffer doesn't return," said the Resurrection Man. "I'd take my davy
      that he wouldn't chouse us out of our reglars. But time will show. Now look here, Lully,—as
      you've made that same remark a dozen times since the thing took place,—and just see how the
      matter stood. We got four thousand pounds clear——"  
  "Yes—a thousand a-piece," said the Lully Prig, assentingly: "and a precious jolly catch it
      was."  
  "Well," continued the Resurrection Man, "the Bank notes were of no more use to us than so
      much waste paper, because Greenwood was sure to stop them the moment he got back to London: at
      least I should think so. Now when that French fellow Lafleur offered to let you, me, the
      Buffer, and Long Bob share the gold, and he would go to France to smash the notes at the
      money-changer's that he told us about in Paris, and then take his thousand beyond his fifth
      share of the produce of the notes, it was the best thing we could do to accept his
      proposal—particularly as he said that any one of us might go with him."  
  "But if he sticks to the whole sixteen thousand pounds, what a deuced good pull he has over
      us," observed the Lully Prig.  
  "So he has," said the Resurrection Man; "and again I tell you that if he hadn't offered to
      go to France and change the notes, we must have destroyed them in the very chalk-pit where we
      divided the swag. They were no use to us—but a great danger. It was better to trust to the
      chance of Lafleur doing the thing that's right; and if he don't, the Buffer will drop down on
      him, in spite of all the guilloteens and
       Johnny-darmies  target="#ENG18460_N133" [33]   in France."  
  "Well, we won't quarrel about it, Tony," said the Lully Prig. "You and the Buffer let me in
      for a good thing; and I ought not to grumble. You see, I've follered your advice, and kept the
      blunt in a safe place, without wasting it as Long Bob is doing. He's never been sober since
      the thing took place."  
  "Where is he now?" asked the Resurrection Man.  
  "Oh! he's knocking about at all the flash cribs, spending his tin as fast as he can,"
      answered the Lully Prig.  
  "Don't let him know of this place of mine for the world," said Tidkins. "A drunken chap like
      that isn't to be trusted in any shape. I only hope he won't wag his tongue too free about the
      business that put all the money into his pocket."  
  "Not he!" cried the Lully Prig: "he's as close as the door of Newgate about them kind of
      things, even when he's as drunk as a pig. But I don't want to have nothing more to do with
      him; I'll stick to you and the Buffer; and when you've settled all the things you say you have
      in hand, we'll be off to Americky."  
  "So we will, Lully. But this fellow Crankey Jem annoys me. You must go on watching him. Or
      p'rhaps it would be better to get the Bully Grand to set some of his Forty Thieves after him?"
      added the Resurrection Man.  
  "No—no," cried the Lully Prig, whose pride was somewhat hurt at this suggestion, which
      seemed to cast a doubt upon his own skill and ability in performing the service required:
      "leave him in my hands, and I'll find out what dodge he's upon sooner or later."  
  Scarcely were these words uttered, when a knock at the front door fell on the ears of the
      two villains.  
  The Resurrection Man descended; and, to the usual inquiry ere the door was opened, the
      well-known voice of the Buffer answered, "It is me."  
  "Well—what luck?" demanded the Resurrection Man, hastily—his avarice prompting the question
      even before his accomplice in iniquity had scarcely time to utter a reply to the first
      query.  
  "Sold—regularly sold—done brown!" returned the Buffer, closing and bolting the door behind
      him.  
  "Damnation!" cried the Resurrection Man, who, now that the faint hope of obtaining a further
      share of the plunder of Greenwood's tin-case was annihilated, manifested a fiercer rage than
      would have been expected after his cool reasoning with the Lully Prig upon the special
      point.  
  "You may well swear, Tony," said the Buffer, sulkily, as he ascended the stairs; "for we
      never was so completely done in all our lives. That snivelling Mounseer was one too many for
      us."  
  "Ah! I see how it is," observed the Lully Prig, when the two men entered the room where he
      had remained; "and I can't say it's more than I expected. But how did he do it?"  
  "Why, he gave me the slip at last," answered the Buffer, pouring himself out half a tumbler
      of raw spirit, which he drank without winking, just as if it were so much water. "You see, he
      kept me humbugging about in Paris week after week, always saying that it wasn't prudent to
      begin smashing the notes yet awhile; and I stuck to him like a leech. I shan't make a long
      story on it now—I'm too vexed: all I'll tell you at present is that four days ago he gave me
      the slip; and so I twigged that it was all gammon. He'd done us brown—that was wery clear;—and
      so I come back."  
  We shall leave the three villains to discuss this disappointment, together with divers other
      matters interesting to themselves, and continue the thread of our narrative in another
      quarter.  
  It is, however, as well to observe that all these comings and goings at the house of the
      Resurrection Man were watched by an individual, who for several nights had been lurking about
      that neighbourhood for the purpose, but who had exercised so much caution that he was never
      perceived by any one of the gang.  
  This person was Crankey Jem.  
  
  CHAPTER CCIX.   ALDERMAN SNIFF.—TOMLINSON AND GREENWOOD.  
  It was eleven o'clock in the forenoon of the day following the incidents just related.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The scene is Mr. Tomlinson's office in Tokenhouse Yard.  
  The stock-broker was seated at his desk. His manner was nervous, and his countenance
      expressive of anxiety: he had, indeed, passed a sleepless night—for he saw in the conduct of
      the Resurrection Man the renewal of a system of extortion which was not likely to cease so
      long as there was a secret to be hushed up.  
  The careful aspect of the stock-broker was not, however, noticed by Mr. Alderman Sniff, who
      was lounging against the mantel, with his back to the fire, and expatiating on his own success
      in life—a favourite subject with this civic functionary, who considered "success" to be
      nothing more nor less than the accumulation of money from a variety of schemes and
      representations so nearly allied to downright swindling, that it was impossible to say what a
      jury would have thought of them had they come under the notice of a criminal tribunal.  
  "But how have you managed to do it all?" asked Tomlinson, by way of saying
      something—although his thoughts were far removed from the topic of Mr. Alderman Sniff's
      discourse.  
  "You see I began life with plenty of money," returned the Alderman: "I mean I had a decent
      fortune at the death of my father, which took place when I was about two-and-twenty. But that
      soon went; and I was glad to accept an offer to go out to India. On my arrival at Madras I was
      inducted into a situation as clerk in a mercantile establishment; and there I was making some
      little money, when I was foolish enough to issue a prospectus for the '  General
       Boa-Constrictor Killing and Wild Beast Extirpation Joint-Stock Company  ,'—a project which
      was not so well relished as I could have wished. My employers discharged me; and, deeply
      disgusted with the ignorance of the English settlers and the natives, who could not understand
      the magnitude of my designs, I came back to England. My trip to India was, however, very
      useful to me; for, on my return to this country, I lived splendidly on the Deccan Prize Money
      for four years."  
  "Lived on the Deccan Prize Money!" exclaimed Tomlinson: "why—what claim had you to any of
      it?"  
  to I can't remember how many lacs of rupees; and it was very easy to obtain loans
      from friends and get bills cashed on the strength of the assertion. Of course this had an end:
      the settlement of the Deccan Prize Money affairs was interminable; but the facility for
      procuring cash on the strength of it was not equally lasting. However,—as I just now
      observed,—I lived comfortably on my alleged claims for four years; and then I started the
       '  Universal Poor Man's Corn-Plaster and Blister Gratuitous Distribution Society  .' I
      got several philanthropic and worthy men to join me in this laudable undertaking: we took
      splendid offices in King Street, Cheapside; and the enterprise progressed wonderfully. How
      well I remember our first annual meeting at Exeter Hall! The great room was crowded to excess.
      I was the Secretary, and it was my duty to read the   Report   of the Committee.
      That document had been drawn up in most pathetic language by some poor devil of an author whom
      I employed for the purpose; and it produced a wonderful effect. It was really quite touching
      to see how the ladies—poor dear creatures!—wept tears of the most refreshing philanthropy,
      when I enumerated the blessings which this Society had conferred upon vast numbers of
      individuals. Nine thousand six hundred and sixty-seven Corn-Plasters and eleven thousand two
      hundred and fourteen Blisters had been distributed gratuitously, during the year, to as many
      poor suffering creatures, who had all been thereby cured of corns previously deemed
      inveterate, and of chest-complaints that until then had received no medical attention. The
         Report   dwelt upon the gratitude of thousands of poor families for the relief
      thus dispensed, and congratulated the members of the Society on the claims they possessed to
      the applause of the whole Christian world. Subscriptions rained in upon me in perfect
      torrents; and there was not a tearless eye throughout that vast hall."  
  "How was it that so excellent an institution became extinct?" asked Tomlinson, awaking from
      his reverie when the Alderman paused.  
  "I really can scarce tell you," was the reply. "Whether it was that the public thought there
      could not possibly be any more corns to cure or pulmonary complaints to heal,—or whether it
      was in consequence of a proposition which I made, in an unlucky hour, to extend the benefits
      of the Society to the poor savages in the islands of the Pacific,—I can't say: it is, however,
      certain that the subscribers were very 'backward in coming forward' at the third annual
      meeting; and so the institution dwindled into nothing. I had, nevertheless, saved some little
      money; and I was not long idle. My next spec. was '  The Metropolitan Poor Family's
       Sunday-Dinner Gratuitous Baking Association  .' You perceive that I am fond of dealing
      in humane and philanthropic enterprises. My idea was to establish numerous baking-houses all
      over London, and to cook the poor man's Sunday joint and potatoes for him, the Society
      reserving to itself the dripping, which being sold, and the profits added to the voluntary
      subscriptions received from the charitable, would support these most useful institutions. At
      the end of a year, however, I was compelled to dissolve the Association, after having gone to
      the expense of building no less than sixty enormous ovens in as many different parts of
      London."  
  "How came that project to fail," asked Tomlinson, "when it was calculated to benefit so many
      poor families?"  
  "Simply because so few of those poor families ever had any Sunday dinners to cook at all,"
      replied Alderman Sniff. "Nevertheless, the subscriptions which were received paid all the
      outlay, and remunerated me for my trouble. I therefore met with some little encouragement in
      all I did for the benefit of my fellow-creatures; and, more than   that  ," added the
      philanthropist, slapping his left breast," I enjoyed the approval, Mr. Tomlinson, of my
      conscience."  
  The stock-broker sighed:—not that he envied any inward feelings which Mr. Alderman Sniff
      could have experienced as the results of the speculations referred to; but the thoughts
      occasioned by the mere mention of the word "Conscience" aroused painful emotions in the breast
      of James Tomlinson.  
  "While I was thus engaged in the behoof of the poorer classes of the community," continued
      Alderman Sniff, "I was gaining influence with my fellow citizens. I became the Treasurer of no
      end of charitable institutions, was elected Churchwarden of my parish, and soon became Deputy
      of the Ward. Fortunately my parish, as you well know, is governed by a Select Vestry—properly
      consisting of three individuals; but as two of the last-elected trio have died, and as I have
      ever stedfastly and successfully opposed the nomination of other parishioners to replace the
      deceased, we have now a Select Vestry of   One  . This gentleman is my most intimate
      friend; and it would do your heart good to see the parochial solemnity and official dignity
      with which he annually proposes me to himself as a candidate for the place of Churchwarden,
      and then proceeds to second the nomination, put the question, lift up his hand, and declare me
      duly elected   without a dissentient voice  . In due time I was chosen Alderman of the
      Ward; and every thing has gone well with me. I have been eminently successful. My '  British
       Marble Company  ' was a glorious hit, as you well know."  
  "Yes—a glorious hit for you," said Tomlinson, with a faint smile. "You yourself were
      Managing Director, and you sold your quarry—or rather your supposed quarry—  to  
      yourself;—you were Auditor and Secretary, and consequently examined and passed your own
      accounts;—you were also the Treasurer, and paid yourself. You had the best of it in every
      way."  
  "Come, Mr. Tomlinson," exclaimed Sniff, chuckling audibly, "I allowed you to reap a decent
      profit on the shares which you sold; so you need not complain."  
  "Oh! I do not complain," observed the stock-broker. "But how do you get on with the accounts
      of your parish?"  
  "Mr. Tomlinson," said the Alderman, almost sternly, "I never will give any accounts at all
      to those refractory parishioners of mine. The Select Vestry of One has met regularly every
      year, and resolved himself into a Committee to investigate my accounts—and that is sufficient.
      And, after all," added the civic functionary, sinking his voice to a mysterious whisper, "even
      if the accounts   were   produced,—although they run over such a long period of years,
      you might put them all into your waistcoat-pocket without finding it stick out more than it
      now does with your small French watch."  target="#ENG18460_N134" [34]    
  With these words, Mr. Alderman Sniff, who had merely looked in to have a chat and
      talk of himself to one with whom there was no necessity to maintain any secrecy in respect to
      his antecedents,—Mr. Alderman Sniff retired.  
  A few minutes afterwards Mr. Greenwood was introduced.  
  "My dear Tomlinson," he said, "I am quite delighted to find you within. I have made a hit,
      and shall retrieve myself with ease. The ten thousand pounds which Holmesford lent me are now
      twenty thousand."  
  "You are a lucky fellow," observed Tomlinson, with a sigh. "Adversity has no effect upon
      you; whereas with me——"  
  "Why—what is the matter now?" interrupted Greenwood. "Always complaining?"  
  "I have good cause for annoyance," returned the stock-broker. "That precious acquaintance of
      yours——"  
  "Who?" demanded Greenwood, sharply.  
  "The lunatic-asylum keeper, as your friend Chichester supposed him to be—but the
      resurrectionist, thief, extortioner, villain, and perhaps murderer, as I take him to be," said
      Tomlinson,—"that scoundrel Tidkins, in a word, has discovered poor old Michael's address, and
      menaces me."  
  "Ah!" said Greenwood, coolly; "it is your own fault: you should have got Martin out of the
      way—even if you had painted him black, shipped him to the United States, and sold him as a
      slave."  
  "Ridiculous!" cried Tomlinson, sternly. "I never will cease to be a friend—a grateful
      friend—to that poor old man."  
  "Well," observed Greenwood, after a pause, "I can do you a service in this respect. I was at
      Rottenborough yesterday—amongst my intelligent and independent constituents; and I learnt that
      the situation of porter to the workhouse in that truly enlightened town is vacant. Now,
      if——"  
  "Enough of this, Greenwood!" exclaimed Tomlinson. "I was wrong to mention the old man's name
      to   you  .—What can I do for you this morning? Have you made up your mind to take the
      loan which my friend consented to advance to you about a month ago, and which you——"  
  "Which I declined then, and decline now," said Greenwood, hastily—as if the allusion awoke
      unpleasant reminiscences in his mind.  
  "I never could understand your conduct on that evening," observed Tomlinson, in his quiet
      manner: "you came at the appointed hour to terminate the business: the money was ready—the
      deed was prepared—my friend was here,—and when you put your hand into your pocket for the
      securities, you turned on your heel and bolted off like a shot."  
  "Yes—yes," said Greenwood, with increased impatience; "I had lost my pocket-book. But——"  
  "And have you found it since?" asked the stock-broker.  
  "I have. But I do not require the loan," returned Greenwood, shortly. "So far from that, I
      wish you to lay out these seven thousand pounds for me in a particular speculation which I
      will explain to you. I have prepared the way for certain success, but cannot appear in it
      myself."  
  Greenwood then counted the Bank notes upon the table for the sum named, and gave Tomlinson
      the necessary instructions for the disposal of the amount.  
  "Any news to-day?" he asked, when this business was concluded.  
  "Here is a second edition of   The Times   with another Telegraphic Despatch from
      Castelcicala," said Tomlinson. "I know you are interested in the affairs of that country, by
      the way you have lately spoken to me on the subject."  
  "Yes:—I am—I am indeed," exclaimed Greenwood, earnestly, as he seized the paper, in which
      the following article appeared in a bold type:—  
  
  "CASTELCICALA.  
   "Proclamation of Alberto I.—  
  Formation of the New Ministry.   
  "The French Government have received the following Telegraphic Despatch from Toulon:—  
  "'  The   Alessandro   steamer has just arrived from Montoni  .   The Marquis
        of Estella  
  proclaimed the  
  Grand Duke Alberto I.  
  in the evening of the 24th, instead of in the morning of that day, which was his original
        intention. This was merely occasioned by the delay of the Marquis in entering the capital.
        The Marquis has formed the following Ministry  :—  
  "Prime Minister, and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Signor Gaëtano.   Minister of the
      Interior, Signor Terlizzi.
        Minister of War, Colonel Cossario.  
  Minister of Marine, Admiral Contarino.  
  Minister of Finance, Signor Viviani.  
  Minister of Justice, Baron Manzoni.  
  Minister of Commerce, Chevalier Grachia.'"    
    The Times   newspaper, commenting upon this Administration, reminded its
      readers that Signors Gaëtano and Terlizzi were the Chiefs of the Provisional Committee of
      Government during the Revolution in Castelcicala; that Colonel Cossario was the second in
      command of the glorious army that had achieved Castelcicalan freedom; that Signor Viviani was
      the well-known banker of Pinalla; and that the Chevalier Grachia was the nephew of the
      deceased general of that name.  
  "Thus is it that Richard can now make a Ministry in a powerful State!" murmured Greenwood to
      himself. "Oh! what a sudden elevation—what a signal rise! And I——"  
  "What are you muttering about to yourself, Greenwood?" asked Tomlinson.  
  "Ah!" cried the Member of Parliament, suddenly, and without heeding the stock-broker's
      question,—for his eyes, wandering mechanically over the surface of the paper which he held in
      his hand, had settled upon a paragraph that excited the liveliest emotions of surprise:—who
      could have believed it? Oh! now I recall to mind a thousand circumstances which should have
      made me suspect the truth!"  
  "The truth of what?" demanded Tomlinson.  
  "That Count Alteroni and Prince Alberto were one and the same person," exclaimed Greenwood;
      "and he is now the Grand Duke of Castelcicala!"  
  "Then you have had the pleasure of including a sovereign-prince amongst the
      number of your victims," observed the stock-broker, coolly.  
  Greenwood made no reply, but remained plunged in a deep reverie, the subject of which was
      the brilliant destiny that appeared to await Richard Markham.  
  As soon as he had taken his leave, Tomlinson also began musing; but it was upon a far
      different topic!  
  "Oh! what a hollow-hearted wretch is that Greenwood!" he said within himself: "and how would
      he have treated Michael Martin, had the poor old man been dependent upon him! Greenwood would
      indeed be capable of sending him to the United States as a slave, were such a course
      practicable. Ah!—the United States!" cried Tomlinson, aloud, as a sudden idea was created in
      his mind by the mention of the name of that glorious Republic:—"and why should   not  
      Michael Martin visit the States—and with me too? Yes! I am wearied of London,—wearied of this
      city where all hearts seem to be eaten up with selfishness,—wearied of supporting the weight
      of that secret which the merest accident may reveal, and which places me at the mercy of that
      ferocious extortioner! Oh! if that secret were discovered—if it were ascertained that Michael
      Martin was really in London,—he would be dragged before the tribunals—and I must either appear
      against him as a witness, or proclaim his innocence and thereby sacrifice myself! No—no—I
      could not do either:—never—never! I know that I am weak—vacillating—timid! But God also knows
      how unwillingly I have departed from the ways of rectitude—how many bitter tears have marked
      the paths of my duplicity! And now I will be firm—yes, firm to commit one last crime! Oh! I
      will prove myself a worthy pupil of my great master Greenwood! He shall be amply repaid,"
      continued the stock-broker, bitterly, "for all the kind lessons he has given me in the school
      of dishonour—yes, and repaid, too, in his own coin. Seven thousand pounds—added to my own
      little stock,—this will be a sufficient fund wherewith to begin an honourable avocation in
      another clime. Yes—America is the country for me! There I can begin the world again as a new
      man—and perhaps I may retrieve myself even in my own estimation!"  
  Tomlinson's resolution was now irrevocably fixed.  
  He would emigrate to the United States, accompanied by his faithful old clerk!  
  Greenwood's money should constitute the principal resource to which he must trust as the
      basis whereon to establish a fortune in the place of the one he had lost.  
  Nor did he hesitate a moment—weak, timid, and vacillating as he was in ordinary
      circumstances—to self-appropriate those funds thus entrusted to him.  
  He had no sympathy for Greenwood;—and, moreover, he had many an act of insolence on the part
      of that individual—many an instance of oppression, to avenge. Ere the failure of the bank,
      Greenwood had taken advantage of his necessities to wring from him enormous interest for loans
      advanced, and had, moreover, made him his instrument in defrauding the Italian prince. Since
      the establishment of the office in Tokenhouse Yard, Greenwood had continued to use Tomlinson
      as a tool so long as his own fortunes had remained prosperous;—and even latterly—since the
      condition of Greenwood's finances had levelled some of those barriers which the necessities of
      the one and the wealth of the other had originally raised between them,—even latterly, the
      manner of the Member of Parliament towards the fallen banker had been that of patronage and
      superiority. Then the frequent and heartless allusions which Greenwood made to the poor old
      clerk, rankled deeply in the mind of Tomlinson; and all these circumstances armed that
      naturally weak and timid man with a giant strength of mind when he contemplated the
      possibility of at length punishing Greenwood for a thousand insults.  
  Tomlinson was not naturally a vindictive man:—persons of his quiet and timid disposition
      seldom are. But there are certain affronts which, when oft repeated and dwelt upon in their
      aggregate, form a motive power that will arouse the most enduring and the weakest mind to
      action—especially, too, when accident throws a special opportunity of vengeance in the
      way.  
  James Tomlinson was a strange compound of good and bad qualities—the latter arising from his
      constitutional want of nerve, and his deficiency in moral energy. Had he been mentally
      resolute, he would have proved a good and great man. The conflicting elements of his character
      were signally demonstrated on this occasion, when he had determined to fly from the
      country.  
  Having given his clerks positive orders that he was not to be interrupted for some hours, he
      sealed up in different parcels the small sums of money which his various clients had placed in
      his hands to purchase scrip or other securities, and addressed the packets to those to whom
      the sums respectively belonged,—omitting, however, Greenwood in this category. He next
      computed the salaries due to his clerks, and set apart the amount required to liquidate those
      obligations also. These duties being accomplished, he locked all the parcels up in one of the
      drawers of his writing-table, and placed the key in his pocket. Greenwood's deposit he secured
      about his person.  
  When it grew dusk in the evening, he repaired to the lodging which Michael Martin occupied
      in Bethnal Green.  
  As soon as Tomlinson had made known his scheme to the old man—(but, of course, without
      betraying the fact of his intention to self-appropriate Greenwood's money)—Michael took a huge
      pinch of snuff, and reflected profoundly for some minutes.  
  "And what's the meaning of this all of a sudden?" demanded the ex-cashier at length.  
  Tomlinson explained, with great frankness, that the Resurrection Man had by some means
      discovered the secret of Michael's abode, and was again playing the part of an extortioner.
      He, moreover, expressed his invincible dislike for a city where he had experienced such
      painful reverses; and declared his resolution of no longer living in such a state of suspense
      and anxiety as he was kept in by the constant dread of an exposure in respect to his faithful
      old clerk.  
  "You need not leave London on that account," said Martin, gruffly: "I have long made up my
      mind how to act in case of detection."  
  "How?" asked Tomlinson, with a foreboding shudder.  
  aware that you would not have the courage to appear against me in a court of
      justice and boldly accuse me of having embezzled your funds——"  
  "The courage!" exclaimed Tomlinson, wiping away a tear: "no—nor the heart! My good—faithful
      old friend——"  
  "Well—well: don't be childish, now," said Michael, who was obliged to take several pinches
      of snuff to conceal his own emotions: "if you are really desirous to leave England and go to
      America, I will accompany you. Of course I will—you know I will," he added, more hastily than
      he was accustomed to speak.  
  "There is no time for delay," said Tomlinson, rejoiced at this assent which he had wrung
      from his faithful servitor. "We will repair to Dover this very night, and thence proceed to
      France. The distance from Calais to Havre is not very great: and from the latter port ships
      are constantly sailing for America."  
  "Let me proceed alone to Havre," said old Martin; "and you can follow me openly and at your
      leisure."  
  "No," replied Tomlinson; "that would only be to compromise   your   safety, perhaps. We
      will part no more."  
  The advice of the stock-broker was acted upon; and the fugitives succeeded in leaving the
      kingdom in safety.  
  But that night the Resurrection Man vainly awaited the arrival of James Tomlinson.  
  And on the following day, Mr. Greenwood discovered, to his cost, that the effects of those
      lessons of duplicity and dishonour which he had inculcated in respect to the stock-broker,
      practically redounded upon himself!  
  
  CHAPTER CCX.   HOLFORD'S STUDIES.  
  It was midnight.  
  In a garret, belonging to a house in the same court where Crankey Jem resided, sate Henry
      Holford.  
  He was alone. His elbow rested on the table, and his hand supported his feverish head—for
      dark thoughts filled the brain of that young man.  
  The flickering light of a single candle fell upon the pages of an old volume, which he was
      reading with intense interest.  
  His cheeks were pale,—his lips were dry,—his throat was parched,—and his eye-balls glared
      with unnatural lustre.  
  He did not feel athirst—else there was water handy to assuage the craving:—nor did he hear
      his heart beating violently, nor experience the feverish and rapid throbbing of his
      temples.  
  No:—his whole thoughts—his entire feelings—his every sensation,—all were absorbed in the
      subject of his study.  
  And that the reader may fully comprehend the nature of those impulses which were now urging
      this strange young man on to the perpetration of a deed that was destined to give a terrible
      celebrity to his name, we must quote the passage on which his mind was so intently fixed:—  
  
  "THE ASSASSINATION OF GUSTAVUS III., OF SWEDEN.  target="#ENG18460_N135"/   
  "The nobles were discontented with the general conduct of the King; and a conspiracy was
       planned against him under his own roof. His wars had compelled him to negotiate large loans,
       and to impose upon his subjects heavy taxes. The nobles took advantage of that circumstance
       to prejudice the minds of many of the people against the sovereign who had laboured so long
       for their real good. On the 16th of March, 1792, he received an anonymous letter, warning him
       of his immediate danger from a plot that was laid to take away his life, requesting him to
       remain at home, and avoid balls for a year; and assuring him, that if he should go to the
       masquerade for which he was preparing, he would be assassinated that very night. The King
       read the note with contempt, and at a late hour entered the ball-room. After some time he sat
       down in a box with the Count of Essen, and observed he was not deceived in his contempt for
       the letter, since, had there been any design against his life, no time could be more
       favourable than that moment. He then mingled, without apprehension, among the crowd; and just
       as he was preparing to retire with the Prussian ambassador, he was surrounded by several
       persons in masks, one of whom fired a pistol at the back of the King, and lodged the contents
       in his body. A scene of dreadful confusion ensued. The conspirators, amidst the general
       tumult and alarm, had time to retire to other parts of the room; but one of them had
       previously dropped his pistols and a dagger close by the wounded King. A general order was
       given to all the company to unmask, and the doors were immediately closed; but no person
       appeared with any particular distinguishing marks of guilt. The King was immediately conveyed
       to his apartment; and the surgeon, after extracting a ball and some slugs, gave favourable
       hopes of his Majesty's recovery.  
  "Suspicions immediately fell upon such of the nobles as had been notorious for their
       opposition to the measures of the court. The anonymous letter was traced up to Colonel
       Liljehorn, Major in the King's Guards, and he was immediately apprehended. But the most
       successful clue that seemed to offer was in consequence of the weapons which had fallen from
       the assassin. An order was issued, directing all the armourers, gunsmiths, and cutlers, in
       Stockholm, to give every information in their power to the officers of justice, concerning
       the weapons. A gunsmith who had repaired the pistols readily recognised them to be the same
       which he had repaired some time since for a nobleman of the name of Ankarstrom, a captain in
       the army; and the cutler who had made the dagger, referred at once to the same person.  
  "The King languished from the 17th to the 29th of March. At first, the reports of his
       medical attendants were favourable; but on the 28th a mortification was found to have taken
       place, which terminated his existence in a few hours. On opening his body, a square piece of
       lead and two rusty nails were found unextracted within the ribs.  
  "During his illness, and particularly after he was made acquainted with the certainty of
       his approaching dissolution, Gustavus continued to display that unshaken courage which he had
       manifested on every occasion during his life. A few hours before his decease, he made some
       alterations in the arrangement of public affairs. He had before, by his will, appointed a
       council of regency, but convinced, by recent experience, how little he could depend on the
       attachment of his nobles, and being also aware of the necessity of a strong government in
       difficult times, he appointed his brother, the Duke of Sudermania, sole regent, till his son,
       who was then about fourteen, should have attained the age of eighteen years. His last words
       were a declaration of pardon to the conspirators against his life. The actual murderer alone
       was excepted; and he was excepted only at the strong instance of the regent, and those who
       surrounded his Majesty in his dying moments. Immediately on the death of the King, the young
       prince was proclaimed by the title of Gustavus IV.  
  monster and a tyrant.' Suspicions at the same time fell on the Counts Horn and
       Ribbing, Baron Pechlin, Baron Ehrensvard, Baron Hartsmandorf, Von Engerstrom the Royal
       Secretary, and others; and these suspicions were confirmed by the confession of Ankarstrom.
       After a very fair and ample trial, this man was condemned to be publicly and severely whipped
       on three successive days, his right hand and his head to be cut off, and his body impaled:
       which sentence he suffered on the 17th of May. His property was given to his children, who,
       however, were compelled to change their name."    
  "Ankarstrom was a martyr—a hero!" exclaimed Holford, aloud; his imagination excited by the
      preceding narrative, and all the morbid feelings of his wrongly-biassed mind aroused at the
      idea of the terrible renown that attached itself to the name of a regicide.  
  Then,—although the garret in which he sate was so cold that ice floated on the water in the
      pitcher, and the nipping chill of a February night came through the cracked panes and
      ill-closed lattice, while the snow lay thick upon the slanting tiles immediately above his
      head,—that young man's entire frame glowed with a feverish heat, which shone with sinister
      lustre in his eyes, and appeared in the two deep-red hectic spots which marked his cheeks.  
  "Yes—Ankarstrom was a hero!" he exclaimed. "Oh! how he must have despised the efforts of the
      torturers to wring from him a groan:—how he must have scorned the array of penalties which
      were sought to be made so terrible! And Ravaillac—the regicide beneath whose hand fell Henry
      IV. of France—oh! how well is every word of his history treasured up in my mind. But Francis
      Damien—ah! his fate was terrible indeed! And yet I am not afraid to contemplate it—even though
      such a one should be in store for me."  
  Then hastily turning to the "History of France," in the volume which he was reading, he
      slowly and in measured terms repeated aloud the following passage:—  
  
  "ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION OF LOUIS XV., OF FRANCE.  
  "In the year 1757, one Francis Damien, an unhappy wretch, whose sullen mind, naturally
       unsettled, was inflamed by the disputes between the King and his Parliament concerning
       religion, formed the desperate resolution of attempting the life of his Sovereign. In the
       dusk of the evening, as the King prepared to enter his coach, he was suddenly, though
       slightly, wounded, with a pen-knife, between the fourth and fifth ribs, in the presence of
       his son, and in the midst of his guards. The daring assassin had mingled with the crowd of
       courtiers, but was instantly betrayed by his distracted countenance. He declared it was never
       his intention to kill the King: but that he only meant to wound him, that God might touch his
       heart, and incline him to restore the tranquillity of his dominions by re-establishing the
       Parliament, and banishing the Archbishop of Paris, whom he regarded as the source of the
       present commotions. In these frantic and incoherent declarations he persisted, amidst the
       most exquisite tortures; and after human ingenuity had been exhausted in devising new modes
       of torment, his judges, tired out with his obstinacy, consigned him to a death, the
       inhumanity of which might fill the hearts of savages with horror: he was conducted to the
       common place of execution, amidst a vast concourse of the populace; stripped naked, and
       fastened to the scaffold by iron manacles. One of his hands was then burnt in liquid flaming
       sulphur; his thighs, legs, and arms, were torn with red hot pincers: boiling oil, melted
       lead, resin, and sulphur, were poured into the wounds; and, to complete the terrific
       catastrophe, he was torn to pieces by horses!"    
  "And they call him an unhappy wretch!" exclaimed Holford, pushing the book from him: "no—no!
      He must have had a great and a powerful mind to have dared to attempt to kill a King! And his
      name is remembered in history! Ah! that thought must have consoled him in the midst of those
      infernal torments. What is more delightful than the conviction of emerging from vile
      obscurity, and creating a reputation—although one so tarnished and disfigured that the world
      shrinks from it with loathing? Yes:—better to be a Turpin or a Barrington—a Claude du Val or a
      Jack Sheppard, than live unknown, and die without exciting a sensation. But it would be
      glorious—oh! how glorious to be ranked with Ankarstrom, Ravaillac, Damien, Felton, Guy Fawkes,
      Fieschi, and that gallant few who have either slain, or attempted the lives of, monarchs or
      great men! I am miserable,—poor,—obscure,—and without a hope of rising by legitimate means. I
      have seen the inside of a palace—and am doomed to drag on my wretched existence in this
      garret. I have partaken of the dainties that came from the table of a sovereign—and, were I
      hungry now, a sorry crust is all that my cupboard would afford. I have listened to the musical
      voice of that high-born lady whose name I scarcely dare to breathe even to myself—and now the
      cold blast of February comes with its hoarse sound to grate upon my ears in this
      miserable—miserable garret! Oh! why was my destiny cast in so lowly a sphere? What has been my
      almost constant occupation—with some few brighter intervals—since I was twelve years old? A
      pot-boy—a low, degraded pot-boy: the servant of servants—the slave of slaves—forced to come
      and go at the beck and call of the veriest street-sweeper that frequented the tap-room! Ah! my
      God—when I think of all this humiliation, I feel that my blood boils even up to my very
      brain—my eyes and cheeks appear to be upon fire—I seem as if my senses were leaving me!"  
  And, as he spoke, he clenched his fists and ground his teeth together with a ferocious
      bitterness, which indicated the fearfully morbid condition of his mind.  
  For he was enraged against fortune who had made him poor and humble—against the world for
      keeping him so—and against royalty and aristocracy for being so much happier and so
      incomparably more blessed than the section of society to which he belonged.  
  And in his vanity—for his soaring disposition made him vain—he conceived that he possessed
      elements of greatness, which the world, with a wilful blindness, would not see; or which
      adverse circumstances would not suffer to develop themselves.  
  He deemed himself more persecuted than others moving in the same sphere: his restless,
      diseased, and excited mind, had conjured up a thousand evils to which he thought himself the
      marked—the special prey.  
  He had seen, in his visits to the palace, so much of the highest eminence of luxury,
      pleasure, happiness, and indolent enjoyment, that he looked around with horror and affright
      when he found himself hurled back again into the lowest depths of obscurity, privation, and
      cheerlessness of life.  
  He had at intervals feasted his eyes so greedily with all the fascination, the glitter, the
      gorgeousness, the splendour, the ease, and the voluptuousness, of the Court, that he could not
      endure the contemplation of the fearful contrast which was afforded by the every-day and
      familiar scenes of starvation, penury, misery, and ineffectual toil that marked the existence
      of the people.  
  The moral condition of Henry Holford was a striking proof of the daring flights
      of which the human mind is capable. On the very first occasion of his visit to the palace, he
      had allowed himself to be carried away by all the wildest emotions and the strangest
      impressions that were produced by the novelty of what he then saw and heard. Royalty had been
      ever associated, in his vulgar conception, with something grand and handsome in man, and
      something wonderfully beautiful in woman. Thus, when he first saw the Queen, he was prepared
      to admire her:—he admired her accordingly; and that feeling increased to a degree the
      insolence of which at times overawed and terrified even himself.  
  By another wayward inclination of his unhealthy but enthusiastic mind, he had from the first
      been prepared to dislike the Prince; and this feeling increased in violence with those
      circumstances which each successive visit to the royal abode developed. At length—as if his
      evil destiny must infallibly hurry him on to some appalling catastrophe—he was discovered by
      the Prince in the detestable condition of an eaves-dropper, and was ignominiously driven forth
      from that dwelling where his mind had gradually collected the elements of a most unnatural
      excitement.  
  He knew that any attempt to repeat his visits would be frustrated by the precautions which
      were certain to have been adopted to prevent future intrusions of a like nature; and he now
      felt precisely as one who is compelled suddenly to abandon a habit to which he had become
      wedded. Strange as it may appear, the morbid excitement attendant upon those visits to the
      palace was as necessary to Holford's mental happiness as tobacco, opium, snuff, or strong
      liquors are to so many millions of individuals.  
  With a person in such a state of mind, the first impulse was bitter hatred against the one
      who had deprived him of a source of pleasurable excitement; and in that vengeful feeling were
      absorbed all those rational reflections which would have convinced him that his own insolent
      intrusion—his own unpardonable conduct—had provoked the treatment he had received. He never
      paused to ask himself by what right he had entered the palace and played the ignoble part of a
      listener to private conversation and a spy upon the hallowed sanctity of domestic life:—the
      dominant idea in his mind was his ignominious expulsion.  
  "Fate has now filled my cup of bitterness to the brim," he would say to himself; "and all
      that remains for me to do is to avenge myself on him whom my destiny has made the instrument
      of this crowning degradation."  
  By degrees the mind of that young man found its gloomy broodings upon vengeance associating
      themselves with other sentiments. He gradually blended this idea of revenge with the ardent
      desire of breaking those trammels which kept his name imprisoned in the silent cavern of
      obscurity. The two sentiments at length united in his imagination; and his pulse beat
      quickly—and his eyes flashed fire, when he surveyed the possibility of gratifying his thirst
      for vengeance and suddenly rendering his name notorious at the same moment, and by one
      desperate—fearful deed!  
  The reader cannot now be at a loss to comprehend how this wretchedly mistaken young man was
      brought to study the history of those regicides who have gained an infamous renown in the
      annals of nations.  
  And as he dwelt with an insane enthusiasm upon those narratives, the feeling of
      admiration—nay, adoration—which he had once experienced towards the Queen, was merged in the
      terrible longing for a diabolical notoriety that now became his predominating—his
      all-absorbing passion!  
  "Yes!" he exclaimed, as he pushed the book away from him, that night on which we have
      introduced the reader to his garret: "I will be talked about—my name shall be upon every
      tongue! Obscurity shall no longer enshroud me: its darkness is painful to my soul. I will do a
      deed that shall make the Kingdom ring from one end to the other with the astounding
      tidings:—the newspapers shall struggle with all the eagerness of competition to glean the most
      trivial facts concerning me;—and when the day arrives for me to appear before my judges, the
      great nobles and the high-born ladies of England shall crowd in the tribunal to witness the
      trial of the pot-boy Henry Holford!"  
  The act on which the young man was now resolved, appeared not to him in its real light as an
      atrocious crime—a damnable deed that would arouse a yell of execration from one end of the
      land to the other:—it seemed, on the contrary, a glorious achievement of which he would have
      reason to be proud.  
  Alas! how strangely constituted is the human mind, which, in any state of being, could
      cherish such monstrous delusions—such fatal aspirations!  
  But is there no blame to be attached to society for this development of ideas so morbid even
      on the part of one single individual? is there nothing in the constitution of that society
      which gives encouragement, as it were, to those detestable sentiments?  
  Let us see.  
  Enough has been said in the more serious and reasoning parts of this work to prove that
      society is in a vitiated—a false—and an artificial condition. The poor are too poor, and the
      rich too rich: the obscure are too low, and the exalted too high. The upper classes alone have
      opportunities of signalising themselves: the industrious millions have no chance of rising in
      the State. Interest procures rank in the Navy—money buys promotion in the Army—and interest
      and money united obtain seats in the Legislative Assembly. Interest and money, then, remain to
      the exclusive few: the millions have neither—nor are they even stimulated by a national system
      of Education. An aristocrat of common abilities may rise to eminence in some department of the
      State, with but little trouble: but a son of toil, however vast his natural talents, has not a
      single chance of starting from obscurity through the medium of their proper development.  
  This is true: and we defy the most subtle reasoner on behalf of the oligarchy to refute
      those positions.  
  Now, such being the case,—with a dominant aristocracy on one hand, and the oppressed
      millions on the other,—is it not evident that every now and then some member of the latter
      class will brood upon the vast, the astounding contrast until feelings of a deplorably morbid
      nature become excited in his mind? How could it be otherwise? Ireland, with its agrarian
      outrages and its frequent instances of assassination, proves the fact. England, with its
      incendiary fires in periods of deep distress, affords additional corroboration.  
  We deplore that such should be the case; and not for a moment do we advocate such
      means of vindicating just rights against the usurpers thereof.  
  But if these instances of outbreaking revenge—if these ebullitions of indomitable resentment
         do   now and then occur, no small portion of the blame must be charged against that
      aristocracy which maintains itself on an eminence so immeasurably above the depths in which
      the masses are compelled to languish. And when the poor creature who is goaded to desperation,
         does   strike—can we wonder if, in the madness of his rage, he deals his blows
      indiscriminately, or against an innocent person? He may even aim at royalty itself—although,
      in every really constitutional country, the sovereign is little more than a mere puppet, the
      Prime Minister of the day being the virtual ruler of the nation.  
  From what we have said, it is easy to perceive how the contemplation of the splendid luxury
      of the palace first unhinged and unsettled the mind of Henry Holford.  
  We must now go a step farther.  
  Society manifests a most inordinate and pernicious curiosity in respect to criminals who
      perpetrate an unusual offence. This curiosity passes all legitimate bounds. The newspapers,
      with a natural attention to pecuniary interests, obey the cravings of that feeling by serving
      up the most highly-seasoned food to suit the peculiar appetite. Portraits of the guilty one
      are exhibited in every picture-shop. Apposite allusions are introduced into dramatic
      representations; and even the presiding genius of a "Punch and Judy show" mingles the subject
      with his humorous outpourings. If the criminal make an attack upon royalty, he goes through
      the important but mysterious ordeal of an examination at the Home Office, whence the reporters
      for the press are excluded. On his appearance at Bow Street, the magisterial tribunal is
      "crowded with gentlemen and ladies, who were accommodated with seats upon the bench," as the
      journals say; and when the finale comes at the Central Criminal Court, the fees for admission
      to the gallery rise to two or three guineas for each individual.  
  Thus the criminal is made into a hero!  
  Now is not all this sufficient to turn the head of one whose mind is already partially
      unhinged?  
  Society, then, is to blame in many ways for the development of those morbid feelings which,
      in the present instance, actuated Henry Holford in his desperate purpose.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXI.   THE DEED.  
  Crankey Jem was at dinner, in the afternoon of the day which followed the night of Holford's
      sad historical studies, when the young man entered his room.  
  "Oh! so you've turned up at last," said Jem, pointing to a seat, and pushing a plate across
      the table in the same direction. "What have you been doing with yourself for the last two
      days? But sit down first, and get something to eat; for you look as pale and haggard as if
      you'd just been turned out of a workhouse."  
  "I am not well, Jem," replied Holford, evasively; "and I cannot eat—thank you all the same.
      But I will take a glass of beer: it may refresh me."  
  "Do. You really seem very ill, my poor lad," observed Crankey Jem, attentively surveying
      Holford's countenance, which was sadly changed. "If you have got no money left, my little
      store is at your service, as far as it goes; and you need not think of working in any way till
      you are better. I can easily make another boat or two more during the week; and so you shall
      not want for either medicine or good food."  
  "You are very kind to me, Jem," said Holford, wiping away a tear. "If it hadn't been for you
      I don't know what I should have done. You have supplied me with the means of getting a lodging
      and——"  
  "And you served me well by tracing the villain Tidkins to his nest in Globe Lane,"
      interrupted the returned transport. "I have watched about that neighbourhood every night since
      you followed him there, and have seen something that has made me hesitate a little before I
      pay him the debt of vengeance I owe him. Now that he is in my power, I don't care about
      waiting a while. Besides, if I can find him out in something that would send him to the
      gibbet, I would sooner let him die that way—as a dog, with a halter round his neck—than kill
      him outright with my dagger."  
  "And you suspect——" began Holford.  
  "Yes—yes: but no matter now," cried Jem, hastily. "You are not in the right mood to-day to
      listen to me: but, either I am very much mistaken, or   murder   has been committed
      within the last few days at that house in Globe Town. At all events, I saw a person taken by
      force into the place one night; and that person has never come out again since."  
  "How do you know?" said Holford. "You only watch about the neighbourhood by night."  
  "And is it likely that a person who was conveyed into that house by force during the night,
      would be allowed to walk quietly out in the day-time?" demanded Crankey Jem. "No such thing!
      Tidkins is not the chap to play such a game. The person I speak of was blindfolded—I could see
      it all as plain as possible, for the moon was bright, though I kept in the shade. Now, being
      blindfolded," continued Jem, "it was to prevent her——"  
  "What? was the person a woman?" cried Holford, his interest in Jem's conversation somewhat
      increasing, in spite of the absorbing nature of his own reflections.  
  "Yes. And, as I was saying, the blindfolding was of course to prevent her knowing
      whereabouts she was: so it isn't likely that Tidkins would let her go away again in the broad
      day-light."  
  "Neither does it seem probable that he took her there to make away with her," said Holford;
      "for, as the dead tell no tales, there was not any use in binding her eyes."  
  "  That   also struck me," observed Crankey Jem; "and it's all those doubts and
      uncertainties that make me watch him so close to find out what it all means. And, mark me,
      Harry—I   will  mean the chap that is set to dog me—go to Tidkins's house; and about an hour
      afterwards a man I once knew well—one Jack Wicks, who is called the Buffer—went there also.
      Ah! there's a precious nest of them!"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I say, Jem," exclaimed Henry Holford, abruptly, "I wish you would lend me your pistols for
      a few hours."  
  "And what do you want with pistols, young feller?" demanded the returned convict, laying
      down his knife, and looking Holford full in the face.  
  "A friend of mine has made a wager with another man about hitting a halfpenny at thirty
      paces," said Henry, returning the glance in a manner so confident and unabashed, that Jem's
      suspicions were hushed in a moment.  
  "Yes—you shall have the pistols till this evening," said he: "but mind you bring 'em back
      before dusk."  
  With these words, he rose, went to a cupboard, and produced the weapons.  
  "I'll be sure to bring them back by the time you go out," said Holford. "Are they
      loaded?"  
  "No," answered Jem. "But here's powder and ball, which you can take along with you."  
  "I wish you would load them all ready," observed Holford. "I—I don't think my friend knows
      how."  
  "Not know how to load a pistol—and yet be able to handle one skilfully!" ejaculated Jem, his
      vague suspicions returning.  
  "Many persons learn to fire at a mark at Copenhagen House, or a dozen other places about
      London," said the young man, still completely unabashed; "and yet they can't load a pistol for
      the life of them."  
  "Well—that's true enough," muttered Jem.  
  Still he was not quite reassured; and yet he was unwilling to tax Holford with requiring the
      pistols for any improper purpose. The young lad's reasons might be true—they were at least
      feasible; and Jem was loth to hurt his feelings by hinting at any suspicion which the demand
      for the weapons had occasioned. Moreover, it would be churlish to refuse the loan of them—and
      almost equally so to decline loading them;—and the returned convict possessed an obliging
      disposition, although he had been so much knocked about in the world. He was also attached to
      Henry Holford, and would go far to serve him.  
  Nevertheless, he still hesitated.  
  "Well—won't you do what I ask you, Jem?" said Holford, observing that he wavered.  
  "Is it really for your friends?" demanded the man, turning short round upon the lad.  
  "Don't you believe me?" cried Holford, now blushing deeply. "Why, you cannot think that I'm
      going to commit a highway robbery or a burglary in the day-time—even if I ever did at
      all?"  
  "No—no," said Jem; "but you seemed so strange—so excited—when you first came in——"  
  "Ha! ha!" cried Holford, laughing: "you thought I was going to make away with myself! No,
      Jem—the river would be better than the pistol, if I meant   that  ."  
  "Well—you must have your will, then," said Crankey Jem; and, turning to the cupboard, he
      proceeded to load the pistols.  
  But still he was not altogether satisfied!  
  Holford rose from his seat with an assumed air of indifference, and approached the table
      where the little models of the ships were standing.  
  A few minutes thus elapsed in profound silence.  
  "They're all ready now," said Jem, at length; "and as your friends don't know how to load
      them, it's no use your taking the powder and ball. I suppose they'll fire a shot each, and
      have done with it?"  
  "I suppose so," returned Holford, as he concealed the pistols about his person. "I shall see
      you again presently. Good bye till then."  
  "Good bye," said Jem.  
  But scarcely had Holford left the room a minute, when the returned convict followed him.  
  The fact was that there shot forth a gleam of such inexpressible satisfaction from Holford's
      eyes, at the moment when he grasped the pistols, that the vague suspicions which had already
      been floating in the mind of Crankey Jem seemed suddenly to receive confirmation—or at least
      to be materially strengthened; and he feared lest his young friend meditated
      self-destruction.  
  "The pistols are of no use to him," muttered Jem, as he hastened down the stairs, slouching
      his large hat over his eyes; "but if he is bent on suicide, the river is not far off. I don't
      like his manner at all!"  
  When he gained the street, he looked hastily up and down, and caught a glimpse of Holford,
      who was just turning into Russell Street, leading from Drury Lane towards Covent Garden.  
  "I will watch him at all events," thought Crankey Jem. "If he means no harm, he will never
      find out that I did it; and if he does, I may save him."  
  Meantime, Holford, little suspecting that his friend was at no great distance behind him,
      pursued his way towards St. James's Park.  
  Now that his mind was bent upon a particular object, and that all considerations had
      resolved themselves into that fixed determination, his countenance, though very pale, was
      singularly calm and tranquil; and neither by his face nor his manner did he attract any
      particular notice as he wandered slowly along.  
  He gained the Park, and proceeded up the Mall towards Constitution Hill.  
  Crankey Jem followed him at a distance.  
  "Perhaps, after all, it is true that he has got some friends to meet," he muttered to
      himself; "and it may be somewhere hereabouts that he is to join them."  
  Holford stopped midway in the wide road intersecting Constitution Hill, and lounged in an
      apparently indifferent manner against the fence skirting the Green Park.  
  There were but few persons about, in that particular direction, at the time,—although the
      afternoon was very fine, and the sun was shining brightly through the fresh, frosty air.  
  It was now three o'clock; and some little bustle was visible amongst those few loungers who
      were at the commencement of the road, and who were enabled to command a view of the front of
      the palace.  
  They ranged themselves on one side:—there was a trampling of horses; and in a few moments a
      low open phaeton, drawn by four bays, turned rapidly from the park into the road leading over
      Constitution Hill.  
  "They are coming!" murmured Holford to himself, as he observed the equipage from the short
      distance where he was standing.  
  Every hat was raised by the little group at the end of the road, as the vehicle dashed
      by—for in it were seated the Queen and her illustrious husband.  
  By a strange coincidence Her Majesty was sitting on the left hand of Prince Albert, and not
      on the right as usual: she was consequently nearest to the wall of the palace-gardens, while
      the Prince was nearest to the railings of the Green Park.  
  And now the moment so anxiously desired by Holford, was at hand:—the phaeton drew nigh.  
  He hesitated:—yes—he hesitated;—but it was only for a single second.  
  "Now to avenge my expulsion from the palace!—now to make my name a subject for history!"
      were the thoughts that, rapid as lightning, flashed across his mind.  
  Not another moment did he waver; but, advancing from the railings against which he had been
      lounging, he drew a pistol from his breast and fired it point-blank at the royal couple as the
      phaeton dashed past.  
  The Queen screamed and rose from her seat; and the postillions stopped their horses.  
  "Drive on!" cried the Prince, in a loud tone, as he pulled Her Majesty back upon the seat;
      and his countenance was ashy pale.  
  Holford threw the first pistol hastily away from him, and drew forth the second.  
  But at that moment a powerful grasp seized him from behind,—his arm was knocked upwards,—the
      pistol went off into the air,—and a well-known voice cried in his ears, "My God! Harry, what
      madness is this?"  
  Several other persons had by this time collected on the spot; and the most cordial shouts of
      "God save the Queen!" "God save the Prince!" burst from their lips.  
  Her Majesty bowed in a most graceful and grateful manner: the Prince raised his hat in
      acknowledgment of the sympathy and attachment manifested towards his royal spouse and
      himself;—and the phaeton rolled rapidly away towards Hyde Park, in obedience to the wishes of
      the Queen and the orders of the Prince.  
  "What madness is this, I say, Harry?" repeated Crankey Jem, without relaxing his hold upon
      the would-be regicide.  
  But Holford hung down his head, and maintained a moody silence.  
  "Do you know him?" "Who is he?" were the questions that were now addressed to Crankey Jem
      from all sides.  
  But before he could answer his interrogators, two policemen broke through the crowd, and
      took Holford into custody.  
  "We must take him to the Home Office," said one of the officers, who was a serjeant, to his
      companion.  
  "Yes, Mr. Crisp," was the reply.  
  "And you, my good feller," continued the serjeant, addressing himself to Crankey Jem, "had
      better come along with us—since you was the first to seize on this here young miscreant."  
  "I'd rather not," said Jem, now terribly alarmed on his own account: "I——"  
  "Oh! nonsense," cried Mr. Crisp. "The Home Secretary is a wery nice genelman, and will tell
      you how much obleeged he is to you for having seized——But, I say," added Mr. Crisp, changing
      his tone and assuming a severe look as he gazed on the countenance of the returned convict,
      "what the deuce have we here?"  
  "What, Mr. Crisp?" said the policeman, who had charge of Holford.  
  "Why! if my eyes doesn't deceive me," cried the serjeant, "this here feller is one James
      Cuffin, generally known as Crankey Jem—and he's a 'scaped felon."  
  With these words Mr. Crisp collared the poor fellow, who offered no resistance.  
  But large tears rolled down his cheeks!  
  Policemen and prisoners then proceeded across the park to the Home Office, followed by a
      crowd that rapidly increased in numbers as it rolled onwards.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXII.   THE EXAMINATION AT THE HOME OFFICE.  
  On the arrival of the two prisoners and the two policemen at the Home Office, they were
      shown into a small room joining the one in which the Secretary of State for that Department
      was accustomed to receive individuals or deputations, and where we have already seen him in an
      earlier portion of this work.  
  But on the present occasion the Home Secretary had to be fetched from the Foreign Office,
      where he was sitting with his colleagues in a Cabinet Council.  
  The police officers and the prisoners were therefore left alone together for nearly half an
      hour in the room to which some subordinate official had ordered them to be conducted, upon the
      motives of their presence there being made known to him.  
  The crime of which Holford was accused seemed too grave and serious for even the tamperings
      of policemen: still as these gentry are not merely content with having a finger in almost
      every pie, but must thrust a whole hand in when once they find the opportunity, it was
      impossible that either Mr. Crisp or his colleague could leave Crankey Jem as well as the
      would-be regicide unassailed with questions.  
  The common policeman placed a chair against the outer door of the room, and seated himself
      in it with the air of a man who meant to say as plainly as he could, "Escape now if you
      can."  
  Holford sank upon a seat and fell into a profound reverie; but it was impossible to gather
      the nature of his thoughts from the now passionless and almost apathetic expression of his
      countenance.  
  Crankey Jem also took a chair; but his nervous manner, the pallor of his face, the quivering
      of his lip, and the unsettled glances of his eyes, betrayed the fearful condition of his mind.
      The poor wretch already imagined himself transported back amongst the horrors of Norfolk
      Island!  
  As for Mr. Crisp, he walked once or twice up and down the room, surveying himself
      complacently in a mirror, and then advancing towards Crankey Jem, said with a sort of official
      importance, "Well, my fine feller, you've done it pretty brown again—you have."  
  Jem Cuffin cast upon him a look of deep disgust.  
  "Remember," continued Mr. Crisp, in no way abashed at this unequivocal expression of
      feeling, "whatever you says to me now will probably trans-peer in another place, as we
      officials express it; but if you choose to tell me anything by way of unbuzziming yourself and
      easing your conscience, why, I don't think there'd be no harm in it, and it might do you good
      with the 'thorities. At the same time it's no part of my dooty to pump you."  
  "I have nothing to say to   you  ," observed Crankey Jem.  
  "Well—p'rhaps that's prudent,—'cos I'm official after all," said Mr. Crisp. "But if so be
      you was to tell me how you got away from transportation, how long you've been in England, and
      what you've been doing with yourself since your return, I don't see that you could prejjudidge
      yourself."  
  "As you've had the trouble of taking me, policeman, you'd better go to the extra trouble of
      finding out what you want to know about me," said Jem.  
  "You needn't be uppish with me, because I did my dooty," returned Mr. Crisp. "Remember, I
      don't ask—but I s'pose you've been living in London—eh?"  
  "Well—and if I have——"  
  "There! I knowed you had," cried Crisp.  
  "I didn't say so," observed Jem Cuffin, angrily.  
  "No—but you can't deny it, though. Well, then—as you   have   been living in London,
         according to your own admission  ," continued Mr. Crisp, "in course you must have hung
      out in some partickler quarter. Remember, I don't ask you—but I des say it was in the Holy
      Land."  
  "I dare say it wasn't," returned Jem, drily.  
  "Then it was in the Mint, I'll be bound," cried Crisp. "I don't ask, you know—but wasn't it
      in the Mint?"  
  "No—it wasn't," said Crankey Jem, with a movement of impatience.  
  "Not the Mint—eh? Well, if you says so, it must be true—'cos you should know best. But I
      s'pose you won't deny that it was somewhere in Clerkenwell?"  
  "You're out again," returned Crankey Jem.  
  "The devil I am!" exclaimed Crisp, rubbing his nose. "And yet I'm a pretty good hand at a
      guess too. Now it isn't my wish or my dooty to pump a prisoner—but I should like to be
      resolved as to whether you haven't been living in the Happy Valley?"  
  "No," cried Jem; "and now leave me alone."  
  "Not the Happy Valley—eh?" proceeded the indefatigable Mr. Crisp: then, perceiving that his
      endeavours to find out the prisoner's place of abode were useless, he went upon another tack.
      "Well—it isn't my business to pump you; but I am really at a loss to think how you could have
      been such a fool as to go back to your old tricks and break into that house there—down yonder,
      I mean—you know where? Come now?"  
  And Mr. Crisp fixed a searching eye upon Crankey Jem's countenance.  
  "I tell you what it is," exclaimed the prisoner, seriously irritated at length; "you want to
      entrap me, if you can—but you can't. And for a very good reason too—because I haven't broken
      into any house at all, or done a thing I'm ashamed of since I came back to England."  
  With these words, Crankey Jem turned his back upon the baffled Mr. Crisp, and looked out of
      the window.  
  Almost at the same moment an inner door was thrown open, and one of the Under Secretaries
      for the Home Department beckoned Mr. Crisp into the adjacent room, where the principal
      Secretary was already seated, he having arrived by the private entrance.  
  Crisp remained with the Minister for about ten minutes, and then returned to the ante-room,
      but it was merely to conduct Henry Holford and Crankey Jem into the presence of the Home
      Secretary and the Chief Magistrate of Bow Street.  
  "You may withdraw, Mr.——ahem?" said the Home Secretary, addressing the police-officer.  
  "Crisp, my lord—Crisp is my name."  
  "Oh! very good, Mr. Frisk. You may withdraw, Mr. Frisk," repeated the Minister.  
  And the police-officer retired accordingly, marvelling how the examination could possibly be
      conducted in a proper manner without his important presence.  
  The magistrate commenced by informing Henry Holford of the accusation laid against him by
      Crisp, and then cautioned him in the usual manner to beware of what he said, as anything he
      uttered might be used in evidence against him.  
  "I have no desire to conceal or deny a single particle of the whole truth," returned
      Holford. "I acknowledge that I fired at the Queen and Prince Albert—and with pistols loaded
      with ball, too."  
  "No—there you are wrong," exclaimed Jem; "for I loaded the pistols myself, and I took good
      care only to put powder into them."  
  Holford cast a glance of unfeigned surprise on his friend.  
  "Yes," continued the latter, "what I say is the truth. Your manner was so strange when you
      came to me to borrow the pistols, that I feared you meant to make away with yourself. I did
      not like to refuse to lend you the weapons—particularly as I knew that if you was really bent
      on suicide, you could do it in other ways. But I was resolved that my pistols should not help
      you in the matter; and I only charged them with powder. Then I followed you all the way down
      to the Park; and as you did not stop anywhere, I know that you couldn't have either bought
      balls or altered the charge of the pistols."  
  "This is important," said the magistrate to the Home Secretary.  
  "Very important," answered the latter functionary, who, from the first moment that Holford
      entered the room, had never ceased to gaze at him in the same way that one would contemplate
      an animal with two heads, or four tails, in the Zoological Gardens.  
  "It is very evident that the man was no accomplice in the proceeding," remarked the
      magistrate, in an under tone.  
  The words did not, however, escape Holford's ears.  
  "He an accomplice, sir!" cried the youth, as if indignant at the bare idea. "Oh! no—he has
      been a good friend to me, and would have advised me quite otherwise, had I mentioned my
      purpose to him. He was the first to rush upon me, and—I remember now—knocked up my arm when I
      was about to fire the second pistol."  
  Crisp and the other policeman were called in separately, and examined upon this point. Their
      evidence went entirely to prove that James Cuffin could not have been an accomplice in the
      deed.  
  When the policemen had withdrawn, the Home Secretary and the magistrate conversed together
      in a low tone.  
  "This man Cuffin's evidence will be absolutely necessary, my lord," said the magistrate;
      "and yet, as a condemned felon, and with another charge—namely, that of returning from
      transportation—hanging over him, he cannot be admitted as a witness."  
  "You must remand him for farther examination," returned the Home Secretary; "and in the mean
      time I will advise Her Majesty to grant him a free pardon."  
  "And Henry Holford will stand committed to Newgate, my lord?" said the magistrate,
      inquiringly.  
  The Minister nodded an assent.  
  The policemen were re-admitted, the depositions were signed, and the necessary instructions
      were given for the removal of the prisoners.  
  Two cabs were procured: Holford was conducted to one, and conveyed to Newgate,—but not
      before he had shaken hands with Crankey Jem, who shed tears when he took so sad a farewell of
      the lad, whom he really liked.  
  He himself was shortly afterwards removed in the other cab to the New Prison,
      Clerkenwell.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXIII.   THE TORTURES OF LADY RAVENSWORTH.  
  A week had now elapsed since Lydia Hutchinson entered the service of Lady Ravensworth.  
  The service! Oh! what a service was that where the menial had become the mistress, and the
      mistress had descended to the menial.  
  when but little past the prime of life, into second childhood. Or if he did
      manifest a scintillation of his former spirit, it was merely to command his wife to leave him
      to his own meditations.  
  And again did he have recourse to the pipe: in fact he was never easy now save when he
      lulled his thoughts into complete stupefaction by means of the oriental tobacco. Even when, in
      the midst of her earnest prayers, his wife implored him to come forth again into the world—to
         live  , in fine, for the sake of his as yet unborn babe, the fire that kindled in his
      eyes was so evanescent that an acute observer could alone perceive the momentary—and only
      momentary—effect which the appeal produced.  
  The guests had all taken their departure the day after the bridal; and the splendid mansion
      immediately became the scene of silence and of woe.  
  To all the entreaties of his wife—to all the representations of his favourite page Quentin,
      that he would engage eminent medical assistance, Lord Ravensworth turned a deaf ear, or else
      so far roused himself as to utter a stern refusal, accompanied with a command that he might be
      left alone.  
  Thus was he rapidly accomplishing his own destruction,—committing involuntary suicide by
      slow, certain, and yet unsuspected means,—even as his brother, the Honourable Gilbert Vernon,
      had declared to the Resurrection Man.  
  Adeline had no inclination to seek the bustle and excitement of society. Her love of display
      and ostentation was subdued—if not altogether crushed. She was so overwhelmed with sorrow—so
      goaded by the tyranny of Lydia Hutchinson—so desperate by the mere fact of having to submit to
      that oppression, and by the consciousness that she dared not unbosom her cares to a single
      sympathising heart,—that she at times felt as if she were on the point of becoming raving mad,
      and at others as if she could lay herself down and die!  
  We will afford the reader an idea of the mode of life which the once proud and haughty Lady
      Ravensworth was now compelled to lead beneath the crushing despotism of Lydia Hutchinson.  
  It was on the seventh morning after the arrival of the latter at Ravensworth Hall.  
  The clock had struck nine, when Lydia repaired to the apartment of her mistress——her
      mistress!  
  Until she reached the door, her manner was meek and subdued, because she incurred a chance
      of meeting other domestics in the passages and corridors.  
  But the moment she entered Adeline's apartment—the moment the door of that chamber closed
      behind her—her manner suddenly changed. No longer meek—no longer subdued—no longer wearing the
      stamp of servitude Lydia assumed a stern expression of countenance—so terrible in a vengeful
      woman—and in an instant clothed herself, as it were, with an appearance of truly fiend-like
      malignity.  
  Adeline slept.  
  Approaching the bed, Lydia shook her rudely.  
  Lady Ravensworth awoke with a start, and then glanced hastily—almost franticly—around.  
  "Ah!   you   here again!" she murmured, shrinking from the look of bitter hatred which
      Lydia cast upon her.  
  "Yes—I am here again," said the vindictive woman. "It is time for you to rise."  
  "Oh! spare me, Lydia," exclaimed Adeline; "allow me to repose a little longer. I have passed
      a wretched—a sleepless night: see—my pillow is still moist with the tears of anguish which I
      have shed; and it was but an hour ago that I fell into an uneasy slumber! I cannot live thus—I
      would rather that you should take a dagger and plunge it into my heart at once. Oh! leave
      me—leave me to rest for only another hour!"  
  "No:—it is time to rise, I say," cried Lydia. "It has been my destiny to pass many long
      weary nights in the streets—in the depth of winter—and with the icy wind penetrating through
      my scanty clothing till it seemed to freeze the very marrow in my bones. I have been so
      wearied—so cold—so broken down for want of sleep, that I would have given ten years of my life
      for two hours' repose in a warm and comfortable bed:—but still have I often, in those times,
      passed a whole week without so resting my sinking frame. Think you, then, that I can now
      permit   you   the luxury of sleep when your body requires it—of repose when your mind
      needs it? No, Adeline—no! I cannot turn you forth into the streets to become a houseless
      wanderer, as I have been:—but I can at least arouse you from the indolent enjoyment of that
      bed of down."  
  With these words Lydia seized Lady Ravensworth rudely by the wrist, and compelled her to
      leave the couch.  
  Then the revengeful woman seated herself in a chair, and said in a harsh tone, "Light the
      fire, Adeline—I am cold."  
  "No—no: I will not be   your   servant!" exclaimed Lady Ravensworth. "You are
         mine  —and it is for you to do those menial offices."  
  "Provoke me not, Adeline," said Lydia Hutchinson, coolly; "or I will repair straight to the
      servants' hall, and there proclaim the astounding fact that Lord Ravensworth's relapse has
      been produced by the discovery of his wife's frailty ere their marriage."  
  "Oh! my God—what will become of me?" murmured Adeline, wringing her hands. "Are you a woman?
      or are you a fiend?"  
  "I am a woman—and one who, having suffered much, knows how to revenge deeply," returned
      Lydia. "You shall obey me—or I will cover you with shame!"  
  Adeline made no reply; but, with scalding tears trickling down her cheeks, she
      proceeded—yes, she—the high-born peeress!—to arrange the wood in the grate—to heap up the
      coals—and to light the fire.  
  And while she was kneeling in the performance of that menial task,—while her delicate white
      hands were coming in contact with the black grate,—and while she was shivering in her night
      gear, and her long dishevelled hair streamed over her naked neck and bosom,—there, within a
      few feet of her, sate the menial—the servant, comfortably placed in an arm-chair, and calmly
      surveying the degrading occupation of her mistress.  
  "I have often—oh! how often—longed for a stick of wood and a morsel of coal to make myself a
      fire, if no larger than sufficient to warm the palms of my almost frost-bitten hands," said
      Lydia, after a short pause; "and when I have dragged my weary limbs past the houses of the
      rich, and have caught sight of the cheerful flames blazing through the area-windows of their
      kitchens, I have thought to myself, '  Oh! for one hour to sit within the influence of that
       genial warmth!  ' And yet you—  you  proud daughter of the aristocracy—recoil in disgust from a task which so many
      thousands of poor creatures would only be too glad to have an opportunity of performing!"  
  Adeline sobbed bitterly, but made no reply.  
  The fire was now blazing in the grate: still the high-born peeress was shivering with the
      cold—for ere she could put on a single article of clothing, she was forced to wash the black
      dirt from her delicate fingers.  
  Then that lady, who—until within a week—had never even done so much as take, with her own
      hands, a change of linen from the cupboard or select a gown from the wardrobe, was compelled
      to perform those duties for herself;—and all the while her servant,—her hired servant, to whom
      she had to pay high wages and afford food and lodging,—that servant was seated in the
      arm-chair, warming herself by the now cheerful fire!  
  "Do not be ashamed of your occupation, madam," said Lydia. "It is fortunate for you that
      there is a well-stocked cupboard to select from, and a well-provided wardrobe to have recourse
      to. Your linen is of the most delicate texture, and of the most refined work: your feet have
      never worn any thing coarser than silk. For your gowns, you may choose amongst fifty dresses.
      One would even think that your ladyship would be bewildered by the variety of the assortment.
      And yet you are indignant at being compelled to take the trouble to make your selections! For
      how many long weeks and months together have I been forced, at times, to wear the same thin,
      tattered gown—the same threadbare shawl—the same well-darned stockings! And how many thousands
      are there, Adeline, who dwell in rags from the moment of their birth to that of their death!
      Ah! if we could only take the daughters of the working classes, and give them good
      clothing,—enable them to smooth their hair with fragrant oil, and to wash their flesh with
      perfumed soaps,—and provide them with all those accessories which enhance so much the natural
      loveliness of woman, think you not that they would be as attractive—as worthy of homage—as
      yourself? And let me tell you, Adeline, that such black ingratitude as I have encountered at
      your hands, is unknown in the humble cottage:—the poor are not so selfish—so hollow-hearted as
      the rich!"  
  While Lydia Hutchinson was thus venting her bitter sarcasm and her cutting reproach upon
      Lady Ravensworth, the latter was hurriedly accomplishing the routine of the toilet.  
  She no longer took pride in her appearance:—she scarcely glanced in the mirror as she combed
      out those tresses which it was Lydia's duty to have arranged;—her sole thought was to escape
      as speedily as possible from that room where insults and indignities were so profusely
      accumulated upon her.  
  But her ordeal of torture was not yet at its end.  
  So soon as Lady Ravensworth was dressed, Lydia Hutchinson said in a cool but authoritative
      tone, "Adeline, you will comb out my hair for me now."  
  "Provoke me not, vile woman—provoke me not beyond the powers of endurance!" almost shrieked
      the unhappy lady; "or I shall be tempted—oh! I shall be tempted to lay violent hands upon you.
      My God—my God! what will become of me?"  
  "I am prepared to stand the risk of any ebullition of fury on your part," said Lydia, in the
      same imperturbable manner in which she had before spoken. "Lay but a finger upon me to do me
      an injury, and I will attack you—I will assault you—I will disfigure your countenance with my
      nails—I will tear out your hair by handfuls—I will beat your teeth from your mouth;—for I am
      stronger than you—and you would gain nothing by an attempt to hurt me."  
  "But I will not be your servant!" cried Adeline, fire flashing from her eyes.  
  "I tended your ladyship when you lay upon the humble couch in my garret, in the agonies of
      maternity," replied Lydia; "and your ladyship shall now wait upon me."  
  "No—no! You would make me a slave—a low slave—the lowest of slaves!" ejaculated Adeline,
      wildly. "You degrade me in my own estimation—you render me contemptible in my own eyes——"  
  "And you have spurned and scorned me," interrupted Lydia; "you have made me, too, the lowest
      of slaves, by using me as an instrument to save you from shame;—and now it is time that I
      should teach you—the proud peeress—that I—the humble and friendless woman—have   my  
      feelings, which may be wounded as well as   your own  ."  
  "Lydia—I beg you—I implore you—on my knees I beseech you to have mercy upon me!" cried
      Adeline, clasping her hands together in a paroxysm of ineffable anguish, and falling at the
      feet of the stern and relentless woman whom she had wronged.  
  "I can know no mercy for   you  !" said Lydia Hutchinson, now speaking in a deep and
      almost hoarse tone, which denoted the powerful concentration of her vengeful passions. "When I
      think of all that I have suffered—when I trace my miseries to their source—and remember how
      happy I might have been in the society of a fond father and a loving brother,—when I reflect
      that it was you—  you   who led me astray, and having blighted all my prospects—demanding
      even the sacrifice of my good name to your interests,—thrust me away from you with scorn,—when
      I ponder upon all this, it is enough to drive me mad;—and yet you ask for mercy! No—never,
      never! I cannot pity you—for I hate, I abhor you!"  
  "Do not talk so fearfully, Lydia—good Lydia!" cried Adeline, in a voice of despair, while
      she endeavoured to take the hands of her servant, at whose feet she still knelt.  
  "Think not to move me with a show of kindness," said Lydia, drawing back her hands in a
      contemptuous manner: "  your overtures of good treatment come too late!  "  
  "But I will make amends for the past—I will henceforth consider you as my sister," exclaimed
      Adeline, raising her eyes in an imploring manner towards the vengeful woman. "I will do all I
      can to repair my former ingratitude—only be forbearing with me—if not for   my   sake, at
      least for the sake of my unborn babe!"  
  "Your maternal feelings have improved in quality of late," said Lydia, with a scornful curl
      of the lip; "for—as you must well remember—your   first babe   was consigned to me to be
      concealed in a pond, or thrust into some hole—you cared not how nor where, so long as it was
      hidden from every eye."  
  intolerable of all! Tell me—do you want to kill me by a slow and lingering death?
      or do you wish to drive me mad—  mad  ?" she repeated, her eyes rolling wildly, and her
      delicate hands clenching as she screamed forth the word.  
  The scene was really an awful one—a scene to which no powers of description can possibly do
      justice.  
  The stern, inflexible tyranny of Lydia Hutchinson forced Lady Ravensworth to pass through
      all the terrible ordeal of the most tearing and heart-breaking emotions.  
  Did the miserable peeress endeavour to screen herself within the stronghold of a sullen
      silence, the words of Lydia Hutchinson would gradually fall upon her, one after the other,
      with an irritating power that at length goaded her to desperation. Did she meet accusation by
      retort, and encounter reproach with upbraiding, the inveteracy of Lydia's torturing language
      wound her feelings up to such a pitch that it was no wonder she should ask, with an agonising
      scream, whether the avenging woman sought to drive her mad? Or, again, did she endeavour to
      move the heart of her hired servant by self-humiliation and passionate appeal, the coldness,
      or the malignant triumph with which those manifestations were received awoke within her that
      proud and haughty spirit which was now so nearly subdued altogether.  
  "Do you wish to drive me mad?" Lady Ravensworth had said:—then, when the accompanying
      paroxysm of feeling was past, she threw herself on a chair, and burst into an agony of
      tears.  
  But Lydia was not softened!  
  She suffered Adeline to weep for a few minutes; and when the unhappy lady was
      exhausted—subdued—spirit-broken—the unrelenting torturess repeated her command—"You can now
      arrange my hair."  
  Oh! bad as Adeline was at heart—selfish as she was by nature and by education,—it would have
      moved a savage to have seen the imploring, beseeching look which, through her tears, she cast
      upon Lydia's countenance.  
  "My hair!" said Lydia, imperatively.  
  Then Lady Ravensworth rose, and meekly and timidly began to perform that menial office for
      her own menial.  
  "I never thought," observed Lydia, "while I was a wanderer and an outcast in the
      streets,—as, for instance, on the occasion when I accosted you, in the bitterness of my
      starving condition, in Saint James's Street, and when your lacqueys thrust me back, your
      husband declaring that   it was easy to see what I was  , and your carriage dashing me
      upon the kerb-stone,—little did I think   then   that the time would ever be when a
      peeress of England should dress my hair—and least of all that this peeress should be
         you  ! But when, in your pride, you spurned the worm—you knew not that the day could
      ever possibly come for that worm to raise its head and sting you! Think you that I value any
      peculiar arrangement which you can bestow upon my hair? Think you that I cannot even, were I
      still vain, adapt it more to my taste with my own hands? Yes—certainly I could! But I compel
      you to attend upon me thus—I constitute myself the mistress, and make you the menial, when we
      are alone together—because it is the principal element of my vengeance. It degrades you—it
      renders you little in your own eyes,—you who were once so great—so haughty—and so proud!"  
  In this strain did Lydia Hutchinson continue to speak, while Lady Ravensworth arranged her
      hair.  
  And each word that the vindictive woman uttered, fell like a drop of molten lead upon the
      already lacerated heart of the unfortunate Adeline.  
  At length the ordeal—that same ordeal which had characterised each morning since Lydia
      Hutchinson had become an inmate of Ravensworth Hall—was over; and Adeline was released from
      that horrible tyranny—but only for a short time.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXIV.   THE DUELLISTS.  
  When Lady Ravensworth descended to the breakfast parlour, she summoned her husband's
      principal valet, Quentin, to her presence, and desired him to hasten and inform his lordship
      that the morning meal was served up.  
  Quentin bowed and retired.  
  But both Lady Ravensworth and the valet were well aware that this was a mere idle ceremonial
      which would only lead to the same ineffectual result as on the six preceding mornings—indeed,
      ever since the arrival of Lydia Hutchinson at the Hall. At the same time, the servant was very
      far from suspecting how large a share the new lady's-maid enjoyed in the relapse of his master
      and the increasing sorrows of his mistress.  
  In a few minutes Quentin returned.  
  "His lordship requests you, my lady, to excuse his absence," was the message which he
      delivered—a message as formal as the one that had evoked it.  
  "How is your lord this morning?" asked Adeline, with a profound sigh.  
  "His lordship does not appear to be improving, my lady," was the answer.  
  Adeline sighed once more, and remained silent.  
  The valet withdrew; and the unhappy lady endeavoured to eat a morsel of food: but she had no
      appetite—her stomach seemed to loathe all solid nourishment; and she pushed her plate from
      her.  
  She then endeavoured to while away an hour or two with the most recently published novel and
      the morning's newspapers; but she found her imagination ever wandering to other and sadly
      painful topics.  
  It was about mid-day, when, as she was standing listlessly at the window, which commanded a
      view of the park, she suddenly caught sight of a carriage that was advancing rapidly towards
      the mansion.  
  The livery of the servants belonging to it was unknown to her; and she hastily summoned a
      domestic to instruct him that "she was not at home to any visitors."  
  The vehicle drove up to the principal entrance of Ravensworth Hall; and although the
      domestic delivered the answer commanded by his mistress, it did not seem sufficient to cause
      the departure of the carriage.  
  There was some conversation between the servant who gave that answer and the occupants of
      the vehicle;—but Lady Ravensworth could not overhear a word that was said.  
  In a few minutes, however, the domestic returned to Adeline's presence.  
  "Please your ladyship," he said, "there is a gentleman below who has just been dangerously
      wounded in a duel; and his companions earnestly request——"  
  "I understand you," interrupted Lady Ravensworth. "This is quite another consideration. You
      must admit them by all means."  
  The domestic once more hurried away; and Adeline shortly beheld, from the window, two
      gentlemen alight from the carriage, and then carefully remove a third, who appeared to be in a
      helpless condition. She did not, however, catch a glimpse of either of their faces.  
  Lady Ravensworth now felt herself to be in a most unpleasant situation. Her husband, she
      knew, would not come forth from his private cabinet to do the honours of his mansion; and
      delicacy prevented her from hastening to receive persons who might be total strangers to her,
      and who arrived under such extraordinary circumstances.  
  She did not, however, long hesitate how to act. Ringing the bell, and summoning Quentin to
      her presence, she said to him, "You must make a fitting excuse for the non-appearance of Lord
      Ravensworth, and see that the wounded gentleman be conveyed to a chamber. Then assure his
      friends that they may command every thing they require in this house; and state that I shall
      be happy to receive them in the drawing-room in half an hour."  
  Quentin retired to execute this commission. He had the wounded man borne to a bed-room, and
      offered to send a messenger on horseback to procure medical assistance, from the nearest
      village; but one of the other two gentlemen proved to be a surgeon, whose services had been
      engaged in the usual manner by the duellists.  
  In the meantime, Lady Ravensworth repaired to her boudoir, to change her dress.  
  She was immediately followed thither by Lydia Hutchinson.  
  "I do not require your attendance," said Adeline, with a visible shudder, as the lady's-maid
      closed the door behind her.  
  "I care not for your wishes or aversions," returned Lydia. "Appearances compel me to wait
      upon you—or to have the semblance of waiting upon you;—and, moreover, I have something
      important to communicate. Oh! I feel such pleasure in being the bearer of good news to
         you  !"  
  "What new torture have you in store for me, horrible woman?" cried Lady Ravensworth,
      affrighted by the malignant bitterness with which these last words were uttered.  
  "Know you to whom your princely mansion has just afforded its hospitality?" demanded
      Lydia.  
  "To a wounded duellist and his friends," replied Adeline. "Is   this   circumstance to
      be in any way rendered available to your fearful purposes of torture in respect to me?"  
  "And that wounded duellist and one of his companions are well known to you," said Lydia,
      impressively.  
  "Known to me!" ejaculated Adeline, who felt convinced that some fresh cause of anguish to
      herself lurked in the mysterious language of her torturess.  
  "Oh! yes—known too well to yourself and to me also!" said Lydia, as if shuddering with
      concentrated rage.  
  "Ah! my God—it would require but   that   to drive me to desperation!" exclaimed
      Adeline, a terrible suspicion darting across her mind.  
  "Then despair must be your lot," said Lydia, fixing her eyes with malignant joy upon her
      mistress: "for—as sure as you are called Lady Ravensworth—Lord Dunstable and Colonel
      Cholmondeley are inmates of this mansion!"  
  "May God have mercy upon me!" murmured Adeline, in a low but solemn tone.  
  And she sank almost insensible upon the sofa.  
  "Yes," continued the unrelenting Lydia, "  he   to whom you gave your honour, as one
      child might give a toy of little value to another—and   he   who stole my honour as a
      vile thief plunders the defenceless traveller upon the highway,—those two men are beneath this
      roof! The villain who ruined me and slew my brother, is now lying upon a bed from which he may
      never more be removed save to the coffin. His second was the gay seducer who rioted awhile
      upon your charms, and then threw you aside,—yes,   you  —the daughter of one of England's
      proudest peers—as he would a flower that had garnished his button-hole for an hour, and then
      failed to please any longer. These two men are beneath your roof!"  
  "Oh! if my errors have been great, surely—surely my punishment is more than commensurate!"
      murmured Adeline, in the bitterness of her heart.  
  "Your punishment seems only to have just begun," retorted Lydia, ever ready to plunge a
      fresh dagger into the soul of the unhappy lady.  
  "My God! you speak but too truly!" ejaculated Adeline, clasping her hands together. "Oh!
      that I could pass the latter half of my life over again—oh! that I could recall the years that
      have fled!"  
  "The years that have fled have prepared a terrible doom for those that are to come," said
      Lydia. "But hasten, my lady,—  this time   I will aid you to change your dress," she
      added sneeringly; "for I long to see your meeting with Colonel Cholmondeley."  
  "  See   our meeting!—  you!  " cried Lady Ravensworth, springing from the sofa in
      alarm.  
  "Yes—I shall contrive that pleasure for myself," observed Lydia, calmly.  
  Adeline made no reply: she felt convinced that all remonstrance would be useless.  
  She accordingly addressed herself to the toilet, Lydia assisting her in that ceremony for
      the first time.  
  "I have chosen the attire that best becomes you—and I have arranged your hair in the most
      attractive manner," said Lydia; "for I should be vexed were you not to appear to advantage in
      the presence of him who made you his mistress during pleasure."  
  "Wretch!" cried Adeline, turning sharply round upon Lydia, whose bitter taunt touched the
      most sensitive fibre of her heart.  
  "If I be a wretch, it is you who made me so," said Lydia, with imperturbable coolness.  
  Adeline bit her lips almost till the blood came, to suppress the rage that rose as it were
      into her throat.  
  She then hastily left the boudoir, followed at a short distance by Lydia Hutchinson.  
  with her in respect to any particular line of conduct that she might choose to
      adopt.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  As the unhappy lady proceeded towards the drawing-room, she endeavoured to compose both her
      countenance and her mind as much as possible: but she felt herself blushing at one moment and
      turning pale the next,—now with a face that seemed to be on fire—then with an icy coldness at
      the heart.  
  Since she was at school at Belvidere House she had never met Colonel Cholmondeley. He had
      been much abroad; and, when he was in London, accident had so willed it that he did not once
      encounter the partner of his temporary amour.  
  But that same chance was not for ever to be favourable to Adeline in this respect; and now
      she was at length about to meet that man of all the species in whose presence she had most
      cause to blush.  
  Such an encounter was however necessary, for the sake of appearances. What would her
      servants think if she remained in the solitude of her own chamber while visitors were at the
      mansion? what would the surgeon, who attended the wounded duellist, conjecture if she refused
      the common courtesy which became the mistress of the mansion? The total retirement of Lord
      Ravensworth was already a sufficient reason to provoke strange surmises on the part of the
      newly-arrived guests, although the existence of his extraordinary and unaccountable malady was
      well known in the fashionable world: but if to that fact were superadded the circumstance of a
      similar seclusion on the part of Lady Ravensworth, the most unpleasant rumours might arise.
      Thus was Adeline imperatively forced to do the honours of her house on this occasion.  
  And now she has reached the door of the drawing-room.  
  She pauses for a moment: how violently beats her heart!  
  "This is foolish!" she murmurs to herself: "the ordeal must be passed;—better to enter upon
      it at once!"  
  And she entered the drawing-room.  
  One only of the guests was there; and he had his back towards the door at the moment.  
  But full well did she recognise that tall, graceful, and well-knit frame.  
  caused him to turn hastily round;—and then Adeline and her seducer were face to
      face.  
  "Lady Ravensworth," said the Colonel, rather averting his glance as he spoke—for he
      experienced the full embarrassment of this encounter,—"necessity, and not my wish, has
      compelled me to intrude upon your hospitality. My friend Lord Dunstable and another officer in
      the same regiment had an altercation last evening, which would permit of none other than a
      hostile settlement. The choice of time and place, fell by the laws of honour, to Lord
      Dunstable's opponent; and the vicinity of your abode was unfortunately fixed upon as the spot
      for meeting. My friend was grievously wounded with the first shot; and I had no alternative
      but to convey him to the nearest habitation where hospitality might be hoped for. Your
      ladyship can now understand the nature of that combination of circumstances which has brought
      me hither."  
  "I deeply regret that Lord Ravensworth should be too much indisposed to do the honours of
      his house in person," said Adeline, with her eyes fixed upon the ground, and a deep blush upon
      her cheeks. "Is your friend's wound dangerous?"  
  "Mr. Graham, a surgeon of known skill, is now with him," answered the Colonel; "and
      entertains great hopes of being enabled to extract the ball, which has lodged in the right
      side. It is true that I incur some risk by remaining in the neighbourhood of the metropolis;
      but I cannot consent to abandon my friend until I am convinced that he is beyond danger."  
  "  It is the fashion in the aristocratic world to adhere to a friend, but to abandon the
       seduced girl when she no longer pleases  ," said Lydia Hutchinson, who had entered the
      room unperceived by either Colonel Cholmondeley or Lady Ravensworth, and who now advanced
      slowly towards them.  
  The Colonel stared at Lydia for a few moments: but evidently not recognising her, he turned
      a rapid glance of inquiry upon Adeline, who only hung down her head, and remained silent.  
  "I see that you do not know me, sir," continued Lydia, approaching close to Colonel
      Cholmondeley: then, fixing her eyes intently upon him, she said, "Do you remember me now?"  
  "My good young woman," replied the Colonel, with a mixture of hauteur and bantering
      jocularity, "I really do not think that you have served in any family which I have had the
      honour to visit: and, even if you had, I must candidly confess that my memory is not capacious
      enough to retain the image of every lady's-maid whom I may happen to see."  
  "And yet it is not every lady's-maid," said Lydia, with a scornful glance towards Adeline,
      who, pale and trembling, had sunk upon a seat,—"it is not every lady's-maid that can venture
      to talk thus openly—thus familiarly in the presence of her mistress."  
  While she was yet speaking, a light broke upon the Colonel's mind. Who but one acquainted
      with Lady Ravensworth's secret could be capable of such extraordinary conduct? This idea led
      him to survey Lydia Hutchinson's countenance more attentively than before;—and, although it
      was much altered,—although it no longer bore the blooming freshness which had characterised it
      when he first knew her,—still the expression and the features enabled him to recognise the
      young woman who had become the victim of his friend Lord Dunstable.  
  "Ah! you know me now," continued Lydia, perceiving by a sudden gesture on the part of the
      Colonel that he   had   at length remembered her. "Think you that I have no reproaches to
      hurl at you, sir? Was it not at your house that my ruin was consummated? and were you no party
      to the infamous treachery which gave me to the arms of your friend? But you have no shame:—you
      are a fashionable gentleman—a   roué  —one who considers seduction an
      aristocratic amusement, as well as wrenching off knockers or breaking policemen's heads. What
      to such as you are the tears of deceived and lost girls? what to you are the broken hearts of
      fond parents? Nothing—nothing: I know it well! And therefore it were vain for me to say
      another word—unless it be that I shall now leave you to make your peace as best you may with
      your cast-off mistress   there  !"  
  And pointing disdainfully at Adeline, who uttered a low scream and covered her face with her
      hands as those terrible words fell upon her ears, Lydia slowly quitted the room.  
  Frightfully painful was now the situation of Lady Ravensworth and Colonel Cholmondeley.  
  The former was crushed by the terrible indignity cast upon her: the latter was so astounded
      and at the same time so hurt by all that had just occurred, that he knew not how to act.  
  He felt that any attempt to console Lady Ravensworth would be an insult; and yet he
      experienced an equal inability to permit the scene to pass without some comment.  
  Fortunately for them both, Mr. Graham, the surgeon, entered the room at this juncture.  
  Adeline composed herself by one of those extraordinary efforts which she had lately been so
      often compelled to exert; and Cholmondeley, with the case of a man of fashion (who must
      necessarily be a thorough hypocrite), instantly assumed a manner that would even have disarmed
      suspicion, had any been excited.  
  Having uttered a few ceremonial phrases upon his introduction to Lady Ravensworth, Mr.
      Graham said, "I am happy to state that Lord Dunstable is in as favourable a state as under the
      circumstances could be expected. I have succeeded in extracting the ball—and he now
      sleeps."  
  "Thank God!" exclaimed Cholmondeley,—not with any real piety, but merely using that common
      phrase as expressive of his joy to think that the matter was not more serious than it now
      appeared to be.  
  "I am, however, afraid," continued the surgeon, turning towards Adeline, "that my patient
      will be compelled to trespass for some few days upon the kind hospitality of your
      ladyship."  
  "In which case Lord Dunstable shall receive every attention that can be here afforded him,"
      observed Adeline. "It would be but an idle compliment to you, sir, under the circumstances, to
      say that Ravensworth Hall will be honoured by your presence so long as you may see fit to make
      it your abode."  
  The surgeon bowed in acknowledgment of this courteous intimation.  
  "For my part," Colonel Cholmondeley hastened to say, "I shall not trespass upon her
      ladyship's hospitality; for—since I am assured that my friend is no longer in danger—I must
      attend to certain pressing business which calls me elsewhere."  
  Adeline threw a glance of gratitude upon the Colonel for this expression of his
      intention to relieve her from the embarrassment of his presence; and accordingly, after
      partaking of some luncheon, Cholmondeley took his departure.  
  But ere he left, Lydia Hutchinson had secretly placed a letter, containing a key, upon the
      seat of the carriage which bore him away.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXV.   THE VOICES IN THE RUINS.  
  It would be impossible to conceive the existence of a more wretched woman than Adeline
      Ravensworth.  
  Though wealth and title were hers,—though every luxury and every pleasure were within her
      reach,—though with jewels of inestimable value she might deck herself at will, and thus
      enhance her natural charms,—still, still was she the prey to a constant agony of mind which
      rendered life intolerable.  
  For it is not all the wealth of India,—nor all the luxuries and pleasures of oriental
      palaces,—nor all the diamonds that ever sparkled over the brow of beauty,—it is not these that
      can impart tranquillity to the soul, nor give peace to the conscience.  
  Such was the bitter truth that Adeline was now compelled to acknowledge!  
  Shortly after the departure of Colonel Cholmondeley, which occurred at about four o'clock in
      the afternoon, Lady Ravensworth felt so deeply the want of undisturbed solitude for her
      meditations and of fresh air to relieve the stifling sensation which oppressed her, that she
      determined to take a long walk through the quiet fields.  
  Hastily slipping on a plain straw bonnet and a thick warm shawl, she left the house
      unperceived by her torturess—Lydia Hutchinson.  
  Passing through the spacious gardens at the back of the mansion, she gained the open fields,
      where the cold fresh breeze somewhat revived her drooping spirits.  
  "Heaven grant that the babe which now agitates in my bosom may prove a son!" she thought, as
      she cast a hasty but proud glance around: "or else the broad lands which I now behold, and the
      soil on which my feet now tread, will stand but a poor chance of remaining long beneath my
      control. Yes—they would pass away to one whom I have never seen—whom I have never known save
      by name—and who could not possibly be supposed to entertain any sympathy for me! But if my
      babe should prove a boy—if he should live, too—then adieu to all thy hopes and chances,
      Gilbert Vernon."  
  These reflections led to a variety of others—all connected with Adeline's interests or her
      sorrows.  
  So profoundly was she plunged in her painful reverie, and at the same time so invigorated
      did she feel by the freshness of the air, that she insensibly prolonged her walk until the
      shades of evening gathered around her.  
  She had now reached the ruined remains of a gamekeeper's lodge which marked the boundary of
      the Ravensworth estate in that direction.  
  Feeling a sudden sensation of weariness come over her, she seated herself on a bench which
      still existed near the dilapidated remnant of the cottage-portico.  
  Scarcely had she taken that place, when a voice from the other side of the ruined wall
      caused her to start with sudden affright: but the words that met her ears conquered this first
      feeling of alarm, and inspired one of curiosity.  
  She accordingly lingered where she was; and as the darkness was every moment growing more
      intense, she knew there was but little danger of being perceived.  
  "I tell you that I am a man capable of doing any thing for money," said the voice, in an
      impatient tone. "If you think there is any squeamishness about me, you are deucedly mistaken.
      What I have promised you, I will perform, when the time comes, and if there should be a
      necessity for such a step. I value a human life no more than I do that of a dog. If any one
      came to me and said, '  There is my enemy, and here is your price—now go and kill him  ,'
      I should just count the money first to see that it was all right, and the remainder of the job
      would soon be done, I can assure you."  
  "Well—well, I believe you," said another voice, whose deep tones rolled solemnly upon the
      silence of the dark evening. "To all that you have proposed I must assent—I have gone too far
      to retreat. But we must now separate."  
  "And when shall I see you again?" demanded the first speaker: "because now that you have
      made me acquainted with the whereabouts, I shall constantly be ascertaining how things go on,
      and I ought therefore to be able to communicate very often with you. That is—I ought to see
      you frequently; for I hate doing business by letter."  
  "Can you not give me your own private address?" asked the individual with the deep-toned
      voice; "and then I might call upon you every other evening."  
  "Well said," exclaimed the first speaker: then, after a pause, during which Adeline
      distinctly heard the rustling sound of paper, he said, "Have you got a pencil in your pocket?
      for I can   feel   to write a few words in the dark."  
  "Yes—here is a pencil," returned the deep-toned voice.  
  There was another short pause.  
  "All right!" cried the first speaker, at length. "That bit of paper contains the name and
      address of the most daring fellow that London ever produced," he added with a low chuckle.
      "Talk of your bravos of Spain or Italy—why, they are nothing to me! And isn't it odd, too,
      that whenever a rich or great person wants any thing queer done for him, it is sure to be me
      that he gets hold of somehow or another?"  
  "I have no doubt that you enjoy a most extensive patronage," said the deep-toned voice,
      rather impatiently—and even haughtily. "But we must now separate. The day after to-morrow—in
      the evening—I shall call upon you."  
  "Good: I shall expect you," returned the other.  
  The two individuals then separated—each taking a different way; but one came round the angle
      of the ruined wall, and passed so close to Adeline that she shrank back in a dreadful state of
      alarm lest her presence there should be discovered;—for, mysterious as was the conversation
      which she had just overheard, there was one fact which it too intelligibly revealed—and this
      was the desperate nature of those two men's characters.  
  moreover was sitting in the still deeper obscurity of the ruined portico.  
  Neither was she enabled to obtain a glimpse of his countenance: the outline of a tall and
      somewhat stout figure, as he hurried by her, was the extent of the view which she caught of
      him.  
  In a few moments all was again silent: the sounds of the retreating footsteps no longer met
      her ears.  
  She did not immediately leave the ruins: she paused to reflect upon the strange conversation
      which she had overheard. But all its details were dark and mysterious—save that one man was a
      wretch who gloried in his readiness to perform any crime for a commensurate reward, and that
      the other was either his accomplice or his employer in some fearful plot that was in
      progress.  
  There was one expression that had fallen from the lips of the former miscreant, and on which
      Lady Ravensworth principally dwelt:—"  Now that you have made me acquainted with the
       whereabouts, I shall be constantly ascertaining how things go on  ."  
  Could the   whereabouts  , or locality, alluded to, have any connexion with that
      neighbourhood? And, if so, did the observation refer to the Ravensworth estate? Or were the
      two men merely discussing, in those ruins, matters which regarded some other and totally
      distinct spot?  
  "The latter supposition must be the right one," said Adeline to herself, after a long
      meditation upon the subject. "The only person in the world who could have any interest in
      learning '  how things were going on  ' in this neighbourhood, is Gilbert Vernon; and he
      is in Turkey. Moreover—even were he in England—he would have no need to spy about in the dark:
      he is on friendly terms with his brother, and might present himself boldly at the Hall."  
  Thus reasoning against the vague and temporary fears which had arisen in her mind, Adeline
      rose from the bench and was about to retrace her steps homewards, when the moon suddenly
      appeared from behind a cloud, and its rays fell upon a small white object that lay at the
      lady's feet.  
  She mechanically picked it up:—it was a piece of paper on which she could perceive, by the
      moonlight, that a few words were written; but she could not decypher them.  
  Nevertheless, the mode in which the short lines were arranged struck her with the idea that
      this paper contained an address; and a natural association of facts immediately encouraged the
      belief that she held in her hand the one which the self-vaunted bravo had given ere now to his
      companion, and which the latter might probably have dropped by accident.  
  Hastily concealing it in her bosom, Adeline retraced her steps to Ravensworth Hall.  
  On her arrival she hurried to her boudoir, lighted the wax tapers, and examined the paper
      ere she even laid aside her bonnet and shawl.  
  Yes—it contained an address; and the words were scrawled as they would be if written in the
      dark.  
  There could, then, be no doubt that this was the address which one of the men had given to
      his companion in the ruins of the gamekeeper's lodge.  
  "It is useful to know that such a villain as this can be hired for money!" muttered Adeline
      to herself, as she concealed the paper in one of her jewel-caskets. "What did he say? That if
      any one went to him and whispered, '  There is my enemy, and here is your price—now go and
       kill him  ,' he would take the bribe and do the deed. And did he not boast that he was
      employed by the rich and the powerful? In what manner could such persons require his aid?
      Assuredly in no good cause! Ah! Lydia—Lydia," continued Adeline, her brows contracting and a
      dark cloud passing over her countenance as she spoke, "be not too confident! You are now in
         my   power!"  
  But scarcely was the fearful thought thus implied, when Adeline seemed to recoil from it
      with horror: for, covering her face with her hands, she almost shrieked out, "No—no! I could
      not do it!"  
  "What can you not do, dearest?" said a low voice close by her ear; and almost at the same
      instant she was clasped in the arms of Colonel Cholmondeley.  
  "Release me—release me!" exclaimed Adeline, struggling to free herself from his embrace.  
  "Not till I have imprinted another kiss upon, those sweet lips," returned the Colonel: "not
      till I have made my peace with you, dearest Adeline, in respect to the past:—else wherefore
      should I have come hither?"  
  And as he uttered these words, he glued his lips to hers, although she still continued to
      resist his insolence to the utmost of her power.  
  "Oh! my God!" she murmured in a faint tone "am I to submit to this new indignity?"  
  Cholmondeley supported her to the sofa; then, throwing himself at her feet, he took her
      hands in his, and said in a fervent tone, "Adeline—dearest Adeline, wherefore do you receive
      me thus coldly? Is it possible that you can have altogether forgotten those feelings which
      animated our hearts with a reciprocal affection some years ago? But perhaps my conduct—my
      ungrateful, my ungenerous conduct—has completely effaced all those emotions, and excited
      hatred and disgust instead? Oh! I admit—I acknowledge that my conduct   was  
       ungrateful—  was   ungenerous! I abandoned you at a moment when you most required my
      counsel—my assistance! But was my fault so grave that it is beyond the possibility of pardon?
      When I found myself this morning brought by an imperious necessity—or rather by a strange
      chance—to this mansion, I thought within my breast, '  I shall now see Adeline once again:
       but we must be strangers unto each other. Cold ceremony must separate hearts that once beat
       in the reciprocities of love.  '—And you know, Adeline, with what formal respect I sought
      to treat you. But when I beheld you so beautiful, and yet so unhappy,—when I saw that the
      lovely girl had grown into the charming woman,—oh! I was every moment about to dash aside that
      chilling ceremony and snatch you to my breast. And now, Adeline, will you forgive me?—will you
      say that you do not quite detest me—even if you cannot call me your lover—your friend?"  
  With her head drooping upon her bosom,—with tears trembling upon her long dark lashes,—and
      with her hands still retained in those of Colonel Cholmondeley, did Adeline listen to this
      specious appeal.  
  The words "  your friend  " touched a chord which vibrated to her heart's core.  
  "Oh! yes—I do require a friend—a friend to advise and console me," she exclaimed; "for I am
      very—very miserable!"  
  Cholmondeley was man of the world enough to perceive that his appeal was
      successful—that his victory was complete; and, seating himself by Adeline's side, he drew her
      towards him, saying, "I will be your friend, dearest—I will advise you—I will console you. You
      shall pour forth all your sorrows to me, as if I were your brother: and I swear most solemnly,
      beloved Adeline, that if it be your wish, I will never seek henceforth to be more to you than
      a brother!"  
  "Oh! if that were true—if I could rely upon your word!" cried Adeline, joyfully.  
  "By every sacred obligation with which man can bind himself, do I vow the sincerity of that
      promise," returned Cholmondeley.  
  Then withdrawing his arm from her waist, as a tacit proof of his honourable intentions, but
      still retaining one of her hands in his own, he looked anxiously in her countenance to read
      the impression which his words and manner had created.  
  "Again I say that if I could believe you, I should think myself happy—nay, blest in your
      friendship," returned Adeline; "for I am so miserable—so very, very wretched—that I feel the
      burden of such an existence too heavy to bear. All that has passed between us constitutes a
      reason to induce me to accept you as my friend, rather than any other;—for I have lately seen
      so much of the fiend-like disposition of   one   woman, that I am inclined to abhor the
      whole sex—yes, even though it be my own! And to you, moreover, I can speak frankly of those
      causes which have rendered me so very wretched."  
  "Speak, dear Adeline—unburden your mind to me," said Cholmondeley, in a low, but tender
      tone. "I must, however, inform you that I am already acquainted with many of the incidents
      regarding the connexion between Lydia Hutchinson and yourself, from the moment when Lord
      Dunstable and I so dishonourably wrote to you both to state that we were going abroad.
      Yes—Adeline, I have learnt how you were extricated from the embarrassments of that situation
      in which I shamefully left you,—how, in a word, the offspring of our love was born dead and
      disposed of, and how your reputation was saved through the means of Lydia."  
  "You know all those fearful particulars?" exclaimed Lady Ravensworth, profoundly surprised
      at what she heard.  
  "Yes, dearest: for Lydia, some time after she left the school, became the mistress of my
      friend Dunstable; and she told him all. He related those incidents to me: it was natural that
      he should do—seeing that we were mutually acquainted with each-other's loves. And, oh! my
      dearest Adeline," continued the Colonel, "I can well understand how completely that odious
      woman is enabled to tyrannise over you."  
  "And you can also comprehend how much I stand in need of a friend?" said Lady Ravensworth;
      "for it is hard to be compelled to nurse one's griefs—to conceal one's sorrows—without being
      able to unburden to a single living soul a heart surcharged with woe."  
  "I will be that friend, Adeline," replied Cholmondeley.  
  "But, oh! what dangers do I incur by seeing you—by receiving you here!" exclaimed Adeline.
      "And this thought reminds me that I am even yet ignorant of the means by which you gained
      access to my chamber."  
  "Nay, Adeline," said Cholmondeley, in a tender tone, "do not attempt to disavow the
      encouragement which you so kindly gave me—and to which you now force me to allude."  
  "Encouragement!" repeated Lady Ravensworth, with a tone and manner expressive of unfeigned
      surprise.  
  "Yes, dearest. That key which I found in the post-chaise—and the few words written upon the
      paper which enveloped it——"  
  "My God! there is some fearful mistake in all this!" cried Adeline, seriously alarmed. "But
      explain yourself—quickly—I conjure you!"  
  Cholmondeley was now astonished in his turn; and hastily taking a paper from his pocket, he
      handed it to Lady Ravensworth, saying, "The key was enclosed in this."  
  Adeline cast her eyes upon the paper, and read these words:—  
  "The key contained herein belongs to a door on the southern side of Ravensworth Hall: and
      that door communicates with a private staircase leading to the passage from which my own
      apartments open. I wish to converse with you in secret—if only for a moment; and though I have
      taken this imprudent—this unpardonable step, you will surely spare my feelings, should you
      avail yourself of the possession of the key, by forbearing in my presence from any allusion to
      the means by which it fell into your hands."  
  "Merciful heavens!" ejaculated Adeline, when she had hurriedly glanced over the paper: "I am
      ruined—I am undone! It must be that fiend Lydia, who has thus paved the way for my utter
      destruction!"  
  There was the wildness of despair in the manner of Lady Ravensworth, as she uttered these
      words; and Cholmondeley could not for another moment imagine that her distress was
      feigned.  
  "What do you mean, Adeline?" he said: "did you not send me the key?—did you not pen those
      lines? Surely—surely the handwriting is yours?"  
  "As God is my judge, Cholmondeley," she answered, emphatically, "I never sent you the key—I
      never penned those lines! No—it is Lydia who has done it: she knows my writing well—she has
      imitated it but too faithfully! Go—fly—depart, Cholmondeley: ruin awaits me—perhaps both!"  
  The Colonel dared not delay another moment: the almost desperate wildness of Adeline's
      manner convinced him that she spoke the truth—that she had   not   invited him
      thither.  
  "At least let me hope to see you soon again—or to hear from you," he said, imprinting a
      hasty kiss upon her forehead.  
  "Yes—yes—any thing you will, so that you now leave me," she cried, in a tone of agonising
      alarm.  
  Cholmondeley rushed to the door:—Adeline followed him into the passage, bearing a candle in
      her hand.  
  The reader may conceive the relief which she experienced, when, upon casting a rapid glance
      up and down, she found that her torturess was not there either to expose her completely, or to
      triumph over her alarms.  
  "Farewell," whispered Cholmondeley; and he disappeared down the staircase.  
  Adeline remained at the top, until she heard the private door at the bottom carefully open
      and as gently close.  
  Then she breathed more freely, and re-entered her own chamber.  
  "What could Lydia mean by this perfidious plot?" she murmured to herself, as she
      sank upon the sofa, exhausted both mentally and bodily. "She was not there to enjoy my
      confusion; she did not come with the servants to behold what might have been considered the
      evidence of infidelity towards my husband:—what, then,   could   she mean?"  
  Scarcely had these words passed Adeline's lips, when the door opened, and her torturess
      entered the room.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXVI.   THE PROGRESS OF LYDIA HUTCHINSON'S VENGEANCE.  
  "What means this new device, terrible woman?" cried Adeline, advancing towards Lydia
      Hutchinson, and giving vent to the question which was uppermost in her mind.  
  "Ah! you have already detected my handiwork in the new source of torment which is now open
      against you?" said Lydia, with a smile of triumphant contempt.  
  "I know that you have forged a letter in imitation of my writing——" began Adeline.  
  "And that letter has already produced the desired effect," interrupted Lydia, coolly; "for
      five minutes have scarcely elapsed since Colonel Cholmondeley stole from the private door
      opening upon the garden."  
  "Then you were watching the results of your detestable scheme," cried Lady Ravensworth, in a
      tone bitter with rage.  
  "Not only I—but half a dozen of the other dependants of the household," returned Lydia.  
  "Merciful God! you have done this, vile woman?" screamed Lady Ravensworth. "No—no: you
      surely could not have been so wicked?"  
  "I have done it," replied Lydia, in her calm, impassive manner.  
  "Then it is now for   me   to think of vengeance!" said Adeline, conquering the
      turbulent emotions of passion which agitated within her, and flinging herself once more upon
      the sofa, while her thoughts wandered to the address concealed in the casket of jewels.  
  "  You   think of vengeance!" repeated Lydia, scornfully. "Oh! I should rejoice if you
      were to meet me with my own weapons—for such conduct on   your   part would afford
         me   scope and excuse for augmenting the means of punishment which I employ. And now
      listen to the details of that scheme by which I have this evening so successfully degraded
      you."  
  "Wretch!" muttered Adeline, hoarsely between her teeth.  
  "Hard names break no bones, my lady," said Lydia. "But again I enjoin you to listen to what
      I have to tell you. I knew your handwriting well—and it was no difficult thing to imitate it.
      I penned that letter which the Colonel ere now showed you—and I enclosed the key. In the note
      I desired that no allusion might be made by him to that letter, because I wished the interview
      to be a long one, and I suspected that the suddenness and boldness of his unexpected intrusion
      would cause a protracted conversation ere any question on your part would elicit from him the
      means by which he had obtained access to your privacy. Nor was I mistaken."  
  "Then you listened—you overheard all that passed between us?" cried Adeline.  
  "Nearly every word," answered Lydia: "I only quitted the door of this chamber when he was
      about to leave it."  
  "And therefore you are well aware that he received no criminal encouragement on my
      part?"  
  "Oh! is there nothing criminal in the fact of a lady accepting her seducer—her former
      lover—the father of her first child, as her friend? And such a friend as Cholmondeley would
      prove!" continued Lydia, in a tone of the most mordent sarcasm: "such a friend! Good heavens!
      does your ladyship suppose that that man who is so selfish in his pleasure—so unprincipled in
      his adoption of means to procure the gratification of his wishes—would content himself with
      the cold title and small privileges of a friend? No—no! Were you to encourage his visits to
      this boudoir, ere the third were passed, you would become criminal again!"  
  "And was it to render me criminal again that you inveigled him hither by an atrocious
      forgery?" exclaimed Adeline.  
  "Such was not my object," replied Lydia; "although I have no interest in protecting your
      virtue!   Your virtue  —the virtue of Adeline Enfield—the virtue of Lady Ravensworth!
      Where was ever virtue so immaculate?"  
  "Beware lest you destroy every particle of virtue—that is, of forbearance—remaining within
      me," cried Adeline, her thoughts again reverting to the address which she had concealed in her
      jewel-casket.  
  "Could you kill me, I believe you capable of laying violent hands upon me," returned Lydia;
      "for I know how you must hate   me  —even as sincerely as I loathe   you  ! But I
      have before told you that I am stronger than you!"  
  Adeline made no answer: her mind now dwelt with less horror than before upon the possible
      use which she might be driven to make of the address in the casket.  
  "Oh! brood—brood over plans of vengeance," exclaimed Lydia; "and remember that I defy you!
      All the dark malignity which is now expressed in your lowering countenance, does not terrify
      me. But listen to the conclusion of the narrative which I ere now began. My object in
      effecting the prolongation of the interview between Cholmondeley and yourself, was to afford
      me leisure to warn those of your servants to whom I had already hinted my suspicions of your
      infidelity."  
  Adeline started convulsively, but checked the reply which rose to her lips.  
  "I stationed myself in the garden, accompanied by the housekeeper," continued Lydia; "for I
      suspected that your Colonel would not allow one evening to elapse ere he availed himself of
      the invitation which he supposed to have come from you. Nor was I mistaken. We saw him creep
      stealthily along towards the private door: we saw him enter. Then, while I flew hither to
      listen in the passage to what might pass between you, the housekeeper hastened to fetch
      Quentin——"  
  "Quentin!" cried Adeline, with a shudder.  
  supposed lover's departure," continued Lydia. "But fear not that the tidings will
      reach your husband. No: my vengeance does not seek to wound him:—I pity him too much for that!
      My sole object was to degrade   you   in the eyes of your domestics, as   I   have
      been degraded in the eyes of the world; for I must reduce   your   situation as nearly as
      I can to the level of what   mine   so lately was—that you may understand how much I have
      suffered, and how strong is my justification in avenging myself on the one whose bad example
      and ungrateful heart threw me into the ways of vice and sorrow."  
  "And how can   you  , detestable woman, prevent my servants from circulating this
      terrible scandal?" cried Lady Ravensworth, trembling as she beheld ruin and disgrace yawning
      like a black precipice at her feet, ready to engulph her: "how can   you   seal the lips
      of Quentin, so that this same scandal shall not reach the ears of my husband?"  
  "I have enjoined them all to secrecy on many grounds," answered Lydia: "I have pointed out
      to them the necessity of waiting for ampler proofs of your guilt—I have represented to them
      the propriety of sparing you in your present position, so near the time of becoming a mother
      as you are—and I have also conjured them to exercise forbearance on account of their lord, for
      whom they all feel deeply."  
  "Oh! how kind—how considerate were you in my behalf!" exclaimed Adeline, bitterly: "and
      yet—were I already a mother—you would not hesitate, doubtless, to wreak your fiend-like
      vengeance upon my poor innocent babe."  
  "God forbid!" cried Lydia, emphatically: "no—it is enough that I punish   you  ."  
  "And yet every taunt you throw in my teeth—every indignity you compel me to undergo—every
      torture you inflict upon me, redound in their terrible effects upon the child which I bear in
      my bosom," said Lady Ravensworth, pressing her clasped hands convulsively to her heart.  
  "I know it—and I regret it," returned Lydia coldly: "but I cannot consent to forego one
      tittle of all the tortures which my mind suggests as a punishment for such a bad and heartless
      creature as yourself. I shall now leave you; for I have more work in hand. I have undertaken
      to sit up during the first half of the night, in the chamber of the wounded Lord Dunstable.
      The housekeeper will relieve me for the second half."  
  "Heavens! have you found another object whereon to wreak your vengeance?" exclaimed Adeline.
      "Then may God have mercy upon the unhappy man!"  
  "Yes—pray for him, Adeline: he will have need of all your sympathy!"  
  With these words Lydia Hutchinson left the boudoir.  
  It was now nine o'clock in the evening: Mr. Graham had been left to dine alone; and Adeline
      felt the necessity of proceeding to the drawing-room, to join her guest in partaking of
      coffee.  
  A plea of indisposition was offered for her absence from the dinner-table; and to her
      questions concerning his patient, Mr. Graham replied favourably.  
  The evening dragged its slow length wearily along; for Adeline was too much depressed in
      spirits to prove a very agreeable companion. She moreover fancied she beheld an impudent leer
      upon the countenances of the domestics who served the coffee; and this circumstance, although
      in reality imaginary, only tended to complete her confusion and paralyse her powers of
      conversation.  
  Were it not that   she   now dreamt of vengeance in her turn,—were it not that she
      beheld a chance of speedily ridding herself for ever of the torturess whom circumstances had
      inflicted upon her,—she could not possibly have endured the weight of the last indignity
      forced upon her.  
  To be made the object, as she deemed herself to be, of her very servants' scandalous talk
      and insulting looks, was a position so utterly debasing, that she would have fled from it by
      means of suicide, had she not consoled herself by the idea that a terrible vengeance on the
      authoress of her degradation was within her reach.  
  Crime is like an object of terror seen dimly through the obscurity of night. When afar off
      from it, the appearance of that object is so vaguely horrible—so shapelessly appalling, that
      it makes the hair stand on end; but the more the eye contemplates it—the more familiar the
      beholder grows with its aspect—and the nearer he advances towards it, the less terrible does
      it become; until at length, when he goes close up to it, and touches it, he wonders that he
      was ever so weak as to be alarmed by it.  
  We have seen Lady Ravensworth recoiling with horror from the bare idea of perpetrating the
      crime which the possession of the self-vaunted bravo's address suggested to her
      imagination:—the next time it entered her thoughts, she was less terrified;—a few hours
      passed—and she was now pondering calmly and coldly upon the subject.  
  O God! what is the cause of this? Is there implanted in the heart of man a natural tendency
      towards even the blackest crimes—a tendency which only requires the influence of particular
      circumstances to develop it to its dark and terrible extreme?  
  We may here explain the motives which had induced Colonel Cholmondeley to endeavour to renew
      his connexion with Adeline.  
  Of love remaining for her he had none—even if he had ever experienced any at all. But his
      interests might have been probably served by the restoration of his former influence over
      her.  
  He was a man of ruined fortunes—having dissipated a large property; and although he still
      contrived to maintain appearances, the struggle was a severe one, and only kept up with the
      desperate view of "hooking an heiress."  
  Thus, when he found the letter and the key in the carriage—naturally presuming that Adeline
      had herself thereby intimated her readiness to renew their former   liaison  ,—he began
      to reflect that Lord Ravensworth was dying—that Lady Ravensworth might, should she have a son,
      be speedily left a wealthy widow—or that at all events she must acquire some fortune at her
      husband's decease,—and that he should be acting prudently to adopt all possible means to
      regain his ancient influence over her.  
  in respect to accepting the colder denomination of   friend  , instead of
      the warmer one of   lover  .  
  The reader may imagine his confusion, when an explanation took place relative to the letter
      and the key; nor need we describe the bitter feelings with which he beat his ignominious
      retreat.  
  It was eleven o'clock at night.  
  Mr. Graham had just left his patient in a profound sleep, and had retired to the bed-room
      allotted to him, Lydia Hutchinson having already come to keep the promised vigil by the couch
      of the wounded nobleman.  
  The curtains were drawn around the bed: waxlights burnt upon the mantel.  
  A deep silence reigned throughout the mansion.  
  Lydia Hutchinson threw herself back in the arm-chair, and gave way to her reflections.  
  "Thus far has my vengeance progressed: but it is not yet near its termination. It must fall
      alike upon the woman who first taught me the ways of duplicity and vice, and on him who used
      the blackest treachery to rob me of my innocence. Oh! who would have ever thought that I—once
      so humane in disposition—once possessed of so kind a heart that I sacrificed myself to save a
      friend,—who would have thought that I could have become such a fiend in dealing forth
      retribution? But my heart is not yet completely hardened: it is only towards those at whose
      hands I have suffered, that my sympathies flow no longer. And even in respect to the hateful
      Adeline, how often—oh! how often am I forced to recall to mind all my wrongs—to ponder, to
      brood upon them—in order to nerve myself to execute my schemes of vengeance! When she spoke
      this evening of her unborn child, she touched my heart:—I could have wept—I could have
      wept,—but I dared not! I was compelled to take refuge in that freezing manner which I have so
      well studied to assume when I contemplate her sufferings. My God! thou knowest how great are
      my wrongs! A father's grey hairs brought down with sorrow to the grave impel me to
      revenge:—the voice of a brother's blood appeals to me also for revenge! Revenge—revenge—upon
      Adeline and on the perfidious nobleman sleeping here!"  
  She had reached this point in her musings, when Lord Dunstable moved, and coughed
      gently.  
  He was awake.  
  "Graham," he murmured, in a faint tone: "for God's sake give me some drink—my throat is
      parched!"  
  "Mr. Graham is not present," answered Lydia: "chance has brought   me   hither to
      attend upon you."  
  Thus speaking, she drew aside the curtains.  
  Lord Dunstable cast one glance up to that countenance which looked malignantly on him.  
  "Lydia!" he said: "is that you? or is my imagination playing me false?"  
  "It   is   Lydia Hutchinson, whom you betrayed—whose brother fell by your hand—and who
      is now here to taunt you with all the infamy of your conduct towards her," was the calm and
      measured reply.  
  "Am alone with you?—is there none else present?" asked Dunstable, in a tone of alarm.  
  Lydia drew the curtains completely aside; and the nobleman cast a hasty look round the
      room.  
  "You see that we are alone together," she said; "and you are in my power!"  
  "What would you do to me, Lydia?" he exclaimed: "you cannot be so wicked as to
      contemplate——"  
  "I am wicked enough to contemplate any thing horrible in respect to   you  !"
      interrupted the avenging woman. "But fear not for your life. No:—although your hands be
      imbrued with the blood of my brother, I would not become a murderess because you are a
      murderer."  
  "Did a man apply that name to me," said Dunstable, darting a savage glance towards Lydia's
      countenance, "he should repent his insolence sooner or later."  
  "And are you not a murderer as well as a ravisher?" cried Lydia, in a taunting tone. "By
      means the most vile—the most cowardly—the most detestable—the most degrading to a man, you
      possessed yourself of my virtue. Afterwards, when my brother stood forth as the avenger of his
      sister's lost honour, you dared to point the murderous weapon at him whom you had already so
      grossly wronged in wronging me. Ravisher, you are a cowardly villain!—duellist, you are a
      cold-blooded murderer!"  
  "Lydia—Lydia, what are   you  ?" cried Lord Dunstable; "a fiend—thus to treat a wounded
      man who is so completely at your mercy!"  
  "And how did you treat me when I was at your mercy at the house of your equally abandoned
      friend Cholmondeley?" continued Lydia. "Was not the wine which I drank, drugged for an
      especial purpose? Or, even if it were not—and supposing that I was intemperate,—granting, I
      say, that the stupefaction into which I fell was the result of my own imprudence in drinking
      deeply of a liquor till then unknown to me,—did you act honourably in availing yourself of my
      powerlessness to rob me of the only jewel I possessed? I was poor, my lord—but I was still
      virtuous:—you plundered me of that chastity which gave me confidence in myself and was the
      element of my good name! No prowling—skulking—masked thief ever performed a more infernal part
      than did you on that foul night!"  
  "And now that years have passed, you regret the loss of a bauble—call it a jewel,
      indeed!—which I certainly seized an opportunity to steal, but which you would have given me of
      your own accord a few days later, had I chosen to wait?" said Dunstable, speaking
      contemptuously, and yet with great difficulty.  
  "It is false—it is false—it is false!" replied Lydia, in a hoarse voice that indicated the
      rage which these words excited in her bosom. "I never should have yielded to you: never—never!
      But when once I was lost, I became like all women in the same state—reckless, indifferent!
      Villain that you are, you make light of your crimes. Oh! I am well aware that seduction—rape,
      even, under such circumstances as those in which you ravished me—are not deemed enormities in
      the fashionable world: they are achievements at which profligates like yourself laugh over
      their wine, and which render them favourites with the ladies! Yon call seductions and rapes by
      the noble name of '  conquests  !' O glorious conqueror that   you  utter degradation! Detestable man, of what have you to boast? Of plunging a poor,
      defenceless woman into the depths of misery—of hurrying her father to the grave with a broken
      heart—of murdering her brother! Those are your conquests, monster that you are!"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Weak as was the young nobleman's frame,—attenuated as was his mind by suffering and by
      prostration of the physical energies, it is not to be wondered at if those terrible reproaches
      produced a strange effect upon him,—uttered as they were, too, in a tone of savage malignity,
      and by a woman with whom he found himself alone at an hour when all the other inmates of the
      mansion were probably rocked in slumber.  
  That evanescent gleam of a naturally spirited disposition which had enabled him to meet her
      first taunts with a contemptuous reply, had disappeared; and he now found himself prostrated
      in mind and body—rapidly yielding to nervous feelings and vague alarms—and almost inclined to
      believe himself to be the black-hearted criminal which Lydia represented him.  
  "And when such profligates as you appear in the fashionable world, after some new conquest,"
      proceeded Lydia, "how triumphant—how proud are ye, if the iniquity have obtained notoriety! Ye
      are the objects of all conversation—of all interest! And what is your punishment at the hands
      of an outraged society? Ladies tap you with their fans, and say slyly, '  Oh! the naughty
       man!  ' And the naughty man smiles—displays his white teeth—and becomes the hero of the
      party! But all the while, how many bitter tears are shed elsewhere on his account! what hearts
      are breaking through his villany! Such has doubtless been your career, Lord Dunstable: and I
      do not envy you the feelings which must now possess you. For should that wound prove
      fatal—should mortification ensue—should this, in a word, be your death-bed, how ill-prepared
      are you to meet that all-seeing and avenging Judge who will punish you the more severely on
      account of the high station which you have held in the world!"  
  "Water, Lydia—water!" murmured Lord Dunstable: "my throat is parched. Water—I implore
      you!"  
  "How could I give you so poor a drink as water, when you gave me wine?"  
  "Oh! spare those taunts! I am dying with thirst."  
  "And I am happy in the thirst which now possesses me—but it is a thirst for vengeance!"  
  "Water—water! I am fainting."  
  "Great crimes demand great penance. Do you know in whose mansion you are? This is
      Ravensworth Hall," added Lydia; "and Lady Ravensworth is Adeline—Cholmondely's late
      paramour."  
  "I know all that," said Lord Dunstable, faintly: "but how came you here?"  
  "It were too long to tell you now."  
  "Water, Lydia,—Oh! give me water!"  
  "Tell me that you are a vile seducer—and you repent."  
  "Oh! give me water—and I will do all you tell me!"  
  "Then repeat the words which I have dictated," said Lydia, imperiously.  
  "I am a seducer——"  
  "No: a   vile   seducer!"  
  "A vile seducer—and I repent. Now give me water!"  
  "Not yet. Confess that you are a ruthless murderer, and that you repent!"  
  "No—never!" said Dunstable, writhing with the pangs of an intolerable thirst. "Water—give me
      water!"  
  "You implore in vain, unless you obey me. Confess——"  
  "I do—I do!" exclaimed the miserable nobleman. "I confess that I am—I cannot say it!"  
  "Then die of thirst!" returned Lydia, ferociously.  
  "No: do not leave me thus! Give me water—only one drop! I confess that I murdered your
      brother in a duel—and I deeply repent that deed! Now give me to drink!"  
  "First swear that you will not complain to a living soul of my treatment towards you this
      night," said Lydia, holding a glass of lemonade at a short distance from his lips.  
  "I swear to obey you," murmured Dunstable, almost driven to madness by the excruciating
      anguish of his burning thirst.  
  "You swear by that God before whom you may so soon have to appear?" continued Lydia,
      advancing the glass still nearer to his parched mouth.  
  "I swear—I swear! Give me the glass."  
  Then Lydia allowed him to drink as much as he chose of the refreshing beverage.  
  At that moment the time-piece struck one, and a low knock was heard at the door.  
  "I now leave you," said Lydia, in a whisper, as she leant over him. "Another will watch by
      your side during the remainder of the night. To-morrow evening I shall visit you again.
      Remember your oath not to utter a complaint that may induce the surgeon to prevent me from
      attending on you. If you perjure yourself in this respect, I shall find other means to punish
      you:—and then my vengeance would be terrible indeed!"  
  Lord Dunstable groaned in anguish, and closed his eyes—as if against some horrific
      spectre.  
  Lydia smiled triumphantly, and hastened to admit the housekeeper.  
  "His mind wanders a little," she whispered to the person who thus came to relieve her in the
      vigil; "and he appeared to think that I wished to do him a mischief."  
  "That is a common thing in delirium," answered the housekeeper, also in a low tone,
      inaudible to the invalid. "Good night."  
  "Good night," returned Lydia.  
  She then withdrew—satisfied at having adopted a precautionary measure in case the nobleman
      should utter a complaint against her.  
  And she retired to her own chamber gloating ever the vengeance which she had already taken
      upon the man who had ruined her, and happy in the hope of being enabled to renew those
      torments on the ensuing night.  
  We must conclude this chapter with an incident which has an important bearing upon events
      that are to follow.  
  Adeline arose early on the morning following that dread night of vengeance, and dressed
      herself before Lydia made her appearance in the boudoir.  
  Hastening down stairs, Lady Ravensworth ordered breakfast to be immediately served, and the
      carriage to be got ready.  
  When she returned to the boudoir to assume her travelling attire, Lydia was there.  
  "You have risen betimes this morning, madam," she said; "but if you think to escape the
      usual punishment, you are mistaken."  
  "I am going to London, Lydia, upon important business for Lord Ravensworth," answered
      Adeline; "and as you have frequently declared that you do not level your vengeance against
         him  , I——"  
  "Enough, madam: I will do nothing that may directly injure the interests of that nobleman,
      whom I sincerely pity. When shall you return?" she demanded in an authoritative manner.  
  "This evening—or at latest to-morrow afternoon," was the reply, which Adeline gave
      meekly—for she had her own reasons not to waste time by irritating her torturess on this
      occasion.  
  "'Tis well, Adeline," said Lydia: "I shall not accompany you.   You   are always in my
      power—but Dunstable may soon be far beyond my reach; and I would not miss the opportunity of
      passing the half of another night by his bed-side."  
  Adeline was now ready to depart; and Lydia attended her, for appearance' sake, to the
      carriage.  
  Ere the door of the vehicle was closed, Lady Ravensworth said to Lydia, "You will prepare my
      room as usual for me this evening—and see that the fire be laid by eleven o'clock—as it is
      probable that I may return to-night."  
  Lydia darted upon her mistress a glance which was intended to say—"You shall soon repent the
      authoritative voice in which you uttered that command;"—but she answered aloud, in an assumed
      tone of respect, "Yes, my lady."  
  The footman closed the door—and the carriage drove rapidly away for the town-mansion at the
      West End.  
  And as it rolled along, Adeline mused thus:—  
  "Now, Lydia, for vengeance upon   you  ! You have driven me to desperation—and one of
      us must die! Oh! I have overreached you at last! You think that I am bound upon business for
      my husband:—no, it is for   you  ! And well did I divine that your schemes of vengeance
      against the poor wounded nobleman would retain you at the Hall: well was I convinced that you
      would not offer to accompany me! At length, Lydia, you are in my power!"  
  Then, as she smiled with demoniac triumph, Adeline took from her bosom and
      devoured with her eyes the address that she had picked up in the ruins of the gamekeeper's
      cottage.  
  There was only an old housekeeper maintained at the town-mansion, to take care of the
      dwelling; and thus Adeline was under no apprehension of having her motions watched.  
  Immediately after her arrival, which was shortly before eleven in the forenoon, she repaired
      to a chamber, having given instructions that as she had many letters to write, she desired to
      remain uninterrupted.  
  But scarcely had the housekeeper withdrawn, when Adeline enveloped herself in a large cloak,
      put on a common straw bonnet with a thick black veil, and left the house by a private door of
      which she possessed the key.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXVII.   THE PRISONER IN THE SUBTERRANEAN.  
  It was on the same morning when Adeline came to London in the manner just described, that
      Anthony Tidkins emerged from his dwelling, hastened up the dark alley, and entered the
      ground-floor of the building.  
  He was not, however, alone:—Mr. Banks, who had been breakfasting with him, followed close
      behind.  
  "Light the darkey, old fellow," said the Resurrection Man, when they were both in the back
      room; "while I raise the trap. We must bring matters to an end somehow or another this
      morning."  
  "I hope so," returned Banks. "It isn't wery probable that the poor old weasel will have
      pluck enow to hold out much longer. Why—it must be near upon ten days that she's been
      here."  
  "I dare say it is," observed the Resurrection Man, coolly: "but she'll never stir out till
      she gives us the information we want. It would be worth a pretty penny to us. The young girl
      was evidently dying to know about her parents, that night she met the old woman; and she can
      get money from her friends—she said so."  
  "Well," returned Banks, "let us hope that the old woman has thought better on it by this
      time and will make a clean buzzim of it. It would be a great pity and a wery useless crime if
      we was obleeged to knock the sinful old weasel on the head arter all: her corpse would fetch
      nothing at the surgeon's."  
  "Don't be afraid," said Tidkins: "it won't come to that. She was half inclined to tell every
      thing last night when I visited her as usual. But come along, and let's see how she is
      disposed this morning."  
  The Resurrection Man descended the stone staircase, followed by Banks, who carried the
      light.  
  In a few moments they entered the vault where their prisoner was confined.  
  And that prisoner was the vile hag of Golden Lane!  
  A lamp burned feebly upon the table in the subterranean; and the old woman was already up
      and dressed when the two men made their appearance.  
  She was sitting in a chair, dolefully rocking herself to and fro, and uttering low moans as
      she pondered upon her condition and the terms on which she might obtain her release.  
  When the Resurrection Man and Banks entered the subterranean, she turned a hasty glance
      towards them, and then continued to rock and moan as before.  
  The two men seated themselves on the side of the bed.  
  "Well," said the Resurrection Man, "have you made up your mind, old woman? Because me and my
      friend Banks are pretty tired of this delay; and if the solitary system won't do—why, we must
      try what good can be effected by starvation."  
  "Alack! I have always thought myself bad enough," said the old hag; "but you are a very
      devil."  
  "Ah! and you shall find this place   hell   too, if you go on humbugging me much
      longer," returned the Resurrection Man, savagely. "You have only got yourself to thank for all
      this trouble that you're in. If you had behaved in a straightforward manner, all would have
      gone on right enough. My friend Banks here can tell you the same. But you tried to get the
      upper hand of me throughout the business."  
  "No—no," murmured the hag, still rocking herself.  
  "But I say yes—yes," answered the Resurrection Man. "In the first place you would tell me
      nothing about Catherine Wilmot's parentage: you kept it all close to yourself. I suspected
      you—I even told you so. I declared that '  if I caught you out in any of your tricks, I
       would hang you up to your own bedpost, as readily as I would wring the neck of your old
       cat  .' And I will keep my word yet, if you refuse to give me the information I
      require."  
  "What will become of me? what will become of me!" moaned the old hag. "Alack! alack!"  
  "You'll very soon find out," answered Tidkins. "But I just want to prove to you that I am
      right in all I am doing with regard to you. In the first place you would speak to Katherine
      alone: that didn't look well. You said I might be a witness at a distance—or when the money
      was paid; but I knew that to be all humbug. However, I let you have your way at the
      beginning—if it was only to see how the young girl would receive you. Well, friend Banks
      drives us to Hounslow: we set off to the farm—we meet Katherine and another young lady—and
      this Miss Monroe throws cold water on the whole business. Still you won't speak before
      witnesses. We go back to the inn at Hounslow: we concoct the note to Kate; and friend Banks
      undertakes to deliver it, as it seemed he knew something of her. He managed to give it to her;
      and you, old woman, go off to meet her at seven. Now did you think I was so precious green as
      not to take advantage of the opportunity? Not I! I went after you—I crept round behind the
      fences near where you and Katherine met each other—and I heard every word that passed between
      you."  
  "Alack! alack!" moaned the old woman.  
  "Yes—I heard every thing," continued the Resurrection Man;—"enough to prove to me that the
      young girl would give half her fortune to learn the truth concerning her father and mother. I
      also understood pretty well that there is the name of   Markham  Markham whom I know and hate—had been made a great lord. All you said in respect
      to the conditions on which your secret was to be sold didn't astonish me at all. It only
      confirmed me in the conviction that you had intended throughout to gammon me. You meant to
      make use of me as a tool to find out Katherine's address, and then to reserve for your own
      particular plucking the pigeon whose hiding-place I had detected. '  The man who was with me
       this morning, is a bad one  ,' said you: '  he is avaricious, and desires to turn my
       knowledge of this secret to a good account  .'—And so I did, you old harridan; and so I
      mean to do now.—'  He is a desperate man, and I dare not offend him  ,' you went on to
      say.—Egad! you've found out that you spoke pretty truly.—'  He wants money; and money he
       must have.  '—True again: and money I will have too. The girl tells you she is rich and
      anxious to purchase the secret; and when she asks you how much will satisfy me, you coolly
      tell her, '  A hundred pounds!  '—A hundred devils! And then, in your gammoning,
      snivelling way, you demand of her the '  wherewith to make your few remaining days
       happy  !'"  
  "Alas! I am a poor old soul—a poor old soul!" murmured the horrible crone, shaking her head.
      "Do with me what you will—kill me at once!"  
  "And what the devil good would your carcass be to us?" exclaimed the Resurrection Man.  
  "A workus coffin would be thrown away on it," added Mr. Banks.  
  "So it would, Ned," returned Tidkins. "But I'll just finish what I have to say to the old
      woman; and we'll then go to the point. I was so disgusted, and in such an infernal rage, when
      I heard you going on in such a rascally manner,—selling me, and taking care of yourself,—that
      I determined at one time to come down from behind the palings, and force you to tell Katherine
      Wilmot on the spot all you knew about her parents, and then trust to her generosity. And as
      the night had turned dark, I had moved away from the spot, and was coming towards you along
      the path, when you heard the rustling of my cloak. At that instant another idea struck me: I
      resolved to bring you   here  , and get the secret out of you. I therefore crept softly
      back behind the fence. Then you went on with a deal more nonsense—all of which I heard as well
      as the rest. I was now determined to punish you: so I got back to the inn before you—arranged
      it all with Banks—and we had you up to London, and safely lodged here in this pleasant little
      place, that very night. Now, tell me the truth, old woman—don't you deserve it all?"  
  "Lack-a-day!" crooned the harridan.  
  "She does indeed deserve it, Tony," said Banks, shaking his head with that solemnity which
      he had affected so long as at length to use it mechanically: "she's as gammoning an old wessel
      as ever stood a chance of making a ugly carkiss to be burnt in the bone-house by my friend
      Jones the grave-digger."  
  "Now, by Satan!" suddenly ejaculated the Resurrection Man, starting up, and laying his iron
      hand on the hag's shoulder so as to prevent her from rocking to and fro any longer; "if you
      don't give up this infernal croaking and moaning, I'll invent some damnable torture to make
      you tractable. Speak, old wretch!" he shouted in her ears, as he shook her violently: "will
      you tell us the secret about Katherine Wilmot—or will you not?"  
  "Not now—not now!" cried the hag: "another time!"  
  "I will not wait another hour!" ejaculated the Resurrection Man; "but, by God! I'll put you
      to some torture. What shall we do to her, Banks?"  
  "Screw her cussed carkiss down in one of my coffins for an hour or so," answered the
      undertaker.  
  "No—that won't do," said the Resurrection Man.  
  "I always punishes my children in that way," observed Banks; "and I find it a wery sallitary
      example."  
  "I know what we'll do," exclaimed Tidkins: "they say that Dick Turpin used to put old women
      on the fire to make them tell where their money was. Suppose we serve this wretched hag out in
      the same way?"  
  "I'm quite agreeable," returned Banks, with as much complacency as if a party of pleasure
      had been proposed to him. "I b'lieve you've got a brazier."  
  "Yes—up in the front room, ground-floor, where all the resurrection-tools are kept,"
      answered Tidkins. "You go and fetch it—bring plenty of coal and wood, and the bellows—and
      we'll precious soon make the old woman speak out."  
  The undertaker departed to execute this commission; and Tidkins again reasoned with the
      hag.  
  But all he could get out of her was a moaning exclamation; and as soon as he withdrew his
      hand from her shoulder, she began rocking backwards and forwards as before.  
  It suddenly struck the Resurrection Man that she was actually losing her senses through the
      rigours of confinement; and he became alarmed—not on her account, but for the secret which he
      wished to extort from her.  
  As this idea flashed to his mind, he cast a rapid glance towards the old woman; and
      surprised her as she herself was scrutinising his countenance with the most intense interest,
      while she was all the time pretending to be listlessly rocking her self.  
  "Another gag—by hell!" ejaculated Tidkins "What   do   you take me for? You think that
      I am such a miserable fool as to be deluded by your tricks? Not I, indeed! Ah! you would
      affect madness—idiotcy—would you? Why, if you really went mad through captivity in this place,
      I would knock you on the head at once—for fear that if you were let loose you might preach in
      your ravings about my designs concerning Kate Wilmot. But if you tell me, in your sober
      senses, all I want to know, I'll give you your freedom in twelve hours; because I am very well
      aware that you would not, when in possession of your reason, attract attention to your own
      ways of life by betraying mine."  
  "And if I tell you all I know," said the hag, seeing that her new design was detected and
      that it was useless to persist in it,—"if I tell you all I know, why will you not allow me to
      go home at once?"  
  don't intend you ever to be any wiser. But here comes Banks, with the
      brazier."  
  The undertaker made his appearance, laden with the articles for which he had been sent.  
  The Resurrection Man laid the wood and coals in the brazier, and applied a match. In a few
      moments there was a bright blaze, which he fanned by means of the bellows.  
  "It'll be a good fire in a minute or two," said Tidkins, coolly.  
  "Almost as good as Jones makes in the bone-house where he burns the blessed carkisses of
      wenerable defuncts," returned Mr. Banks.  
  "Don't blow any more, Mr. Tidkins—save yourself the trouble," said the hag, now really
      alarmed. "I will make terms with you."  
  "Terms, indeed!" growled the Resurrection Man. "Well—what have you to say?"  
  "If I tell you every thing, you can get what money you choose out of Katherine," continued
      the old woman; "and I shall not receive a penny."  
  "Serve you right for having tried to gammon me."  
  "That will be very hard—very hard indeed," added the hag. "And after all, when you go to
      Katherine Wilmot and reveal to her the secrets I communicate to you, she will ask you for
       proofs—  proofs  ," repeated the old woman, with a cunning leer; "and you will have no
      proofs to give her."  
  "Then you shall write out the whole history, and sign it," said Tidkins; "and my friend
      Banks will witness it."  
  "Yes," observed the undertaker, smoothing his limp cravat-ends: "Edward Banks, of Globe
      Lane, Globe Town—Furnisher of Funerals on New and Economic Principles—Good Deal Coffin, Eight
      Shillings and——"  
  "Hold your nonsense, Ned," cried Tidkins: then addressing himself again to the old woman, he
      said, "Well—don't you think that scheme would answer the purpose?"  
  "Very likely—very likely," exclaimed the hag. "But proofs—  written proofs  —would not
      be bad companions to the statement that you wish me to draw up."  
  "And have you such written proofs?" demanded Tidkins, eagerly.  
  "I have—I have," was the reply.  
  "Where are they?"  
  "Where you cannot discover them—concealed at my own abode. No one could find them, even if
      they pulled the house down, except myself."  
  And again the hag leered cunningly.  
  "This only makes the matter more important," mused the Resurrection Man, now hesitating
      between his avarice and his desire to possess such important testimony. "Well," he continued,
      after a pause,—"to use your own words, we   will   make terms. I tell you what I'll
      do:—write out your history of the whole business in full—in full, mind; and I will give you
      ten guineas down. At night me and Banks will take you home—to your own place; where you shall
      give me up the written proofs you talk of—and I will give you another ten guineas. Now is that
      a bargain?"  
  "Alack! it must be—it must be!" said the hag. "But why not let me go home to write out the
      history?"  
  "I am not quite such a fool," returned Tidkins. "And mind you do not attempt to deceive me
      with any inventions for I shall deuced soon be able to tell whether your history tallies with
      all I overheard you and Katherine say together on the subject. Besides, the written proofs
      must be forthcoming—and they, too, must fully corroborate all you state. Fail in any one of
      these conditions—and, by Satan! I'll cut your throat from ear to ear. Do you agree?"  
  "I do," answered the hag. "Give me paper and pens."  
  Tidkins departed to fetch writing materials, food, some strong liquor, and oil for the old
      woman's lamp.  
  In five minutes he returned; and, placing those articles upon the table, said, "When will
      your task be completed?"  
  "It will take me some hours," returned the hag: "for I have much to think of—much to
      write!"  
  And she heaved a deep sigh.  
  "This evening I will visit you again," said the Resurrection Man.  
  He and Banks then fastened the huge door upon the old woman, and left the subterranean.  
  When they reached the street, the undertaker departed in the direction of his own house; and
      the Resurrection Man ascended to his apartment on the first floor.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXVIII.   THE VEILED VISITOR.  
  Mr. Tidkins sate down and smoked his pipe as calmly as if he were not at all afraid to be
      left alone to the company of the thoughts which the occupation was likely to stir up within
      him.  
  For when a man takes up his pipe, all the most important ideas in his brain are certain to
      present themselves to his contemplation; and think on them he must, willing or unwilling.  
  But Tidkins shrank not from any of those reflections: he was not one of your villains who
      are either afraid in the dark, or who loathe solitude;—what he did he perpetrated
      systematically, and reviewed coolly.  
  He did not have recourse to the pipe on account of its soothing qualities—for as long as he
      made money, he had no cares; and when he indulged in a glass, it was by no means to drown
      remorse—because he had no compunctions to stifle.  
  people out:—there's that hated Markham—when he comes back; then there's the
      Rattlesnake; and there's Crankey Jem, who, they say in the papers, will have a free pardon
      before the trial of that young fool Holford comes on. Well—I have got something to do, in one
      way or another, before I leave England; but I'm not the man to neglect business—either in the
      pursuit of money or to punish an enemy. Ha! that was a knock at the door! who can come to me
      at this hour?"  
  The Resurrection Man looked at his watch:—the time had passed rapidly away while he was
      smoking and thinking;—and it was now nearly an hour past mid-day.  
  The knock—which was low and timid—was repeated.  
  "It   is   a knock," said Tidkins; and he hastened down to the street door.  
  He opened it and beheld a lady, enveloped in a large cloak, and wearing a black veil which
      was so elaborately worked and so well arranged in thick folds that it was impossible to catch
      even the faintest glimpse of the countenance that it concealed.  
  Tidkins, however, perceived at the first glance that it was no mean person who had sought
      his abode; for the delicate kid gloves were drawn on the small hands with a scrupulous nicety;
      the foot which rested upon the door-step was diminutive to a fault; and the appearance of the
      lady, even disguised as she was, had something of superiority and command which could not be
      mistaken.  
  "Does Mr. Tidkins reside here?" she said, in a tremulous and half-affrighted tone.  
  "My name's Tidkins, ma'am—at your service," answered the Resurrection Man, in as polite a
      manner as he could possibly assume.  
  It seemed as if the lady looked at him through her veil for a few moments, ere she made a
      reply; and she even appeared to shudder as she made that survey.  
  And no wonder;—for a countenance with a more sinister expression never met her eyes; and she
      had moreover recognised the man's voice, which she had heard before.  
  "Will you step in, ma'am?" said Tidkins; seeing that she hesitated. "I am all alone;—and if
      you come to speak on any particular business—as of course you do—there'll be no one to
      overhear us."  
  For another instant did Adeline—(there is no necessity to affect mystery here)—hesitate ere
      she accepted this invitation:—then she thought of her torturess Lydia—and she boldly crossed
      the threshold.  
  But when Tidkins closed and bolted the door behind her, and she found herself ascending the
      steep staircase,—when she remembered that she was now alone in that house with a man
      concerning whom her notions were of the most appalling nature,—she felt her legs tremble
      beneath her.  
  Then again was she compelled to encourage herself by rapidly passing in mental review the
      horrors of those tortures and the extent of those indignities which she endured at the hands
      of Lydia Hutchinson!—and her strength immediately revived.  
  She ascended the stairs, and entered the back room, to which the Resurrection Man directed
      her in language as polite as he could command.  
  Then, having placed a chair for his mysterious visitor near the fire, he took another at a
      respectful distance from her—for he knew that it would be impolitic to alarm one who was
      evidently a well-bred lady, by appearing to be too familiar.  
  "I dare say you are surprised to see a—a female—alone and unprotected—visit your abode in
      this—in this unceremonious manner?" said Adeline, after a long pause, but still fearfully
      embarrassed.  
  "I am not surprised at any thing, ma'am, in this world," replied Tidkins: "I've seen too
      much ever to wonder. Besides, it is not the first time that I have had dealings with gentlemen
      and ladies even of the highest class. But I ask no impertinent questions, and make no
      impertinent remarks. One thing, however, I should like to learn, ma'am—if it would not be
      rude: and that is, how you came to address yourself to me for whatever business you may have
      in hand?"  
  "That I cannot explain," returned Adeline: then, after a moment's thought, she said, "Will
      it not be sufficient for you to know that I obtained your address from one of those high-born
      persons to whom you ere now alluded?"  
  "Quite sufficient, ma'am," answered Tidkins. "In what way can I aid you?"  
  "I scarcely know how to explain myself," said Lady Ravensworth. "I require a great service—a
      terrible one; but I am prepared to pay in proportion."  
  "Do not hesitate with me, ma'am," observed Tidkins, his countenance brightening up
      considerably at the prospect of reaping a good harvest by means of his new customer. "Of
      course you require something which a lawyer can't do, or else you'd go to one: therefore what
      you want is illegal, ma'am; and my business, in a word, is to do every thing which can be done
      in opposition to the law."  
  "But are you prepared to accomplish a deed which, if detected——Oh! I cannot explain myself!
      No:—let me depart—I never should have come hither!"  
  And Adeline was seized by a sudden paroxysm of remorse and alarm.  
  "Calm yourself, ma'am," said Tidkins. "If you wish to go, I cannot prevent you; but if you
      really need my aid—  in any way  —no matter what—speak at your leisure. I am not
      particular, ma'am, as to what I undertake; and don't think I mean to offend you in what I'm
      going to say—it's only to give you confidence towards me, and to afford you an idea of what I
      now and then do for great folks and others, both male and female. Suppose a lady has pawned or
      sold her diamonds to pay a gaming debt, she wants a sham burglary got up in the house to cover
      the loss of them: well, ma'am, I'm the man to break in and carry off a few trifles, besides
      forcing open the door of the closet or bureau   where the casket of jewels ought to be  .
      Or perhaps a tradesman who is about to become bankrupt, wants the stock removed to a place of
      safety where he can have it again after a time: there again, ma'am, I'm the individual to
      accomplish the whole affair in the night, and give the house the appearance of having been
      robbed. Or else a gentleman insures his house and furniture, and wants the money: he goes off
      into the country—his place is burnt to a cinder during his absence—and no one can possibly
      suspect him of having had any thing to do with it. Besides, the whole thing seems an
      accident—so cleverly do I manage it. And, to go a little farther, ma'am—if a lady should
      happen to want to get rid of a severe husband—an illegitimate child—an extortionate lover—or a
      successful rival——"  
  "Or a bitter enemy?" added Lady Ravensworth, hastily—for she had been enabled to
      collect her thoughts and compose herself while Tidkins was thus expatiating upon his
      exploits.  
  "Yes, ma'am—or a bitter enemy," he repeated;—"it's all the same to me; for,"—and he lowered
      his voice as he spoke—"I have either the means of imprisoning them till they're driven raving
      mad and can be safely removed to an asylum—or I make shorter work of it still!" he added,
      significantly.  
  "Ah! you have the means of imprisoning persons—of keeping them for ever out of the way—and
      yet not go to the last extreme?" said Adeline, catching at this alternative.  
  "I have, ma'am," was the calm reply.  
  "But wherefore do you speak thus freely to me? why do you tell me so much?" demanded
      Adeline, a vague suspicion entering her mind that this fearful man knew her. "I am a complete
      stranger to you——"  
  "Yes, ma'am: and you may remain so, if it suits your purpose," answered Tidkins, who divined
      the motive of her observations. "Tell me what you wish done—pay me my price—and I shall ask
      you no questions. And if you think that I am incautious in telling you so much concerning
      myself, let me assure you that I am not afraid of your being a police-spy. The police cannot
      get hold of such persons as yourself to entrap men like me. I   know   that you have
      business to propose to me: your words and manner prove it. Now, ma'am, answer me as frankly as
      I have spoken to you. You have a bitter enemy?"  
  "I have indeed," answered Adeline, reassured that she was not known to the Resurrection Man:
      "and that enemy is a woman."  
  "Saving your presence, ma'am, a woman is a worse enemy than a man," said Tidkins. "And of
      course you wish to get   your enemy   out of the way by some means?"  
  "I do," replied Adeline, in a low and hoarse tone—as if she only uttered those monosyllables
      with a great exertion.  
  "There are two ways, ma'am," said the Resurrection Man, significantly: "confinement in a
      dungeon, or——"  
  "I understand you," interrupted Lady Ravensworth, hastily. "Oh! I am at a loss which course
      to adopt—which plan to decide upon! Heaven knows I shrink from the extreme one——and yet——"  
  "The dead tell no tales," observed Tidkins, in a low and measured tone.  
  Adeline shuddered, and made no reply.  
  She fell back in the chair, and rapidly reviewed in her mind all the perils and
      circumstances of her position.  
  She wished to rid herself of Lydia Hutchinson—for ever! She was moreover anxious that this
      object should be effected in a manner so mysterious and secret that she might not afterwards
      find herself at the mercy of the agent whom she employed in her criminal purpose. She had,
      indeed, already settled a plan to that effect, ere she called upon Tidkins. During the whole
      of the preceding night had she pondered upon that terrible scheme; and so well digested was it
      that Lydia might be made away with—murdered, in fine—and yet Tidkins would never know whom he
      had thus cut off, where the deed was accomplished, nor by whom he had been employed. Thus,
      according to that project, all traces of the crime would disappear, without the possibility of
      ever fixing it upon herself.  
  Now this idea was disturbed by the hint thrown out relative to imprisonment in a dungeon.
      Were such a scheme carried into effect, Tidkins must know who his prisoner was, and by whom he
      was employed. A hundred chances might lead to an exposure, or enable Lydia to effect her
      escape. Moreover, by adopting this project, Adeline saw that she should be placing herself at
      the mercy of a ferocious man, who might become an extortioner, and perpetually menace her by
      virtue of the secret that would be in his keeping. She felt that she should live in constant
      alarm lest Lydia might effect her release by bribery or accident. But chiefly did she reason
      that she had suffered so much at the hand of one who was acquainted with a dread secret
      concerning her, that she shrank from the idea of so placing herself at the mercy of
      another.  
  All these arguments were reviewed by the desperate woman in far less time than we have
      occupied in their narration.  
  But while she was thus wrapped up in her awful reverie, Tidkins, who guessed to a certain
      extent what was passing in her mind, sate silently and patiently awaiting her decision between
      the two alternatives proposed—a dungeon or death!  
  Had he been able to penetrate with a glance through the folds of that dark veil, he would
      have beholden a countenance livid white, and distorted with the fell thoughts which occupied
      the mind of his visitor:—but never once during this interview did he obtain a glimpse of her
      features.  
  "Mr. Tidkins," at length said Adeline, in a low tone and with a visible shudder, "my case is
      so desperate that nothing but a desperate remedy can meet it. Were you acquainted with all the
      particulars, you would see the affair in the same light. Either my enemy must die—or I must
      commit suicide! Those are the alternatives."  
  "Then let your enemy die," returned the Resurrection Man.  
  "Yes—yes: it must be so!" exclaimed Adeline, stifling all feelings of compunction: then
      taking from beneath her cloak a heavy bag, she threw it upon the table, the chink of gold
      sounding most welcome to the ears of the Resurrection Man. "That bag contains a hundred
      sovereigns," she continued: "it is only an earnest of what I will give if you consent to serve
      me precisely in the manner which I shall point out."  
  "That is a good beginning, at all events," said Tidkins, his eyes sparkling with joy beneath
      their shaggy brows. "Go on, ma'am—I am ready to obey you."  
  "My plan is this," continued Adeline, forcing herself to speak with calmness:—"you will meet
      me to-night at the hour and place which I shall presently mention; you will accompany me in a
      vehicle some few miles; but you must consent to be blindfolded as long as it suits my purpose
      to keep you so: when the deed is accomplished, you shall receive two hundred sovereigns in
      addition to the sum now lying before you; and you will return blindfolded with me to the place
      where I shall think fit to leave you. Do you agree to this?"  
  "I cannot have the least objection, ma'am," answered Tidkins, overjoyed at the prospect of
      obtaining such an important addition to the ill-gotten gains already hoarded. "Where and when
      shall I meet you?"  
  "This evening, at nine o'clock—at the corner of the Edgeware Road and Oxford
      Street," replied Adeline.  
  "I will be punctual to the minute," said the Resurrection Man.  
  Lady Ravensworth then took her departure.  
  As soon as it was dusk, Tidkins filled a basket with provisions, and repaired to the
      subterranean dungeon where the old hag was confined.  
  "How do you get on?" he demanded, as he placed the basket upon the table.  
  "Alack! I have not half completed my task," returned the old woman: "my thoughts oppress
      me—my hand trembles—and my sight is bad."  
  "Then you will have to wait in this place a few hours longer than I expected," said Tidkins.
      "But that basket contains the wherewith to cheer you, and you need not expect to see me again
      until to-morrow morning, or perhaps to-morrow night. So make yourself comfortable—and get on
      with your work. I shall keep my word about the reward—do you keep yours concerning the true
      history and the written proofs of Katherine's parentage."  
  "I shall not deceive you—I shall not deceive you," answered the hag. "Alack! I am too
      anxious to escape from this horrible den."  
  "You may leave it to-morrow night for certain," returned Tidkins: "at least, it all depends
      on yourself."  
  He then closed the door, bolted it carefully, and quitted the subterranean.  
  While he was engaged in making some little changes in his toilet ere he sallied forth to his
      appointment with the veiled lady, he thus mused upon a project which he had conceived:—  
  "I have more than half a mind to get the Buffer to dog that lady and me, and find out where
      she takes me to. And yet if we go far in a vehicle, the Buffer never could follow on foot; and
      if he took a cab, it would perhaps be observed and excite her suspicions. Then she might
      abandon the thing altogether; and I should lose my two hundred quids extra. No:—I must trust
      to circumstances to obtain a clue to all I want to know—who she is, and where she is going to
      take me."  
  Having thus reasoned against the project which he had for a moment considered feasible, the
      Resurrection Man armed himself with a dagger and pistols, enveloped himself in his cloak,
      slouched his hat over his forbidding countenance, and then took his departure.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXIX.   THE MURDER.  
  It wanted five minutes to nine o'clock when Anthony Tidkins reached the corner of Oxford
      Street and the Edgeware Road.  
  A cab was standing a few yards up the latter thoroughfare; and as the driver was sitting
      quietly on his box, without endeavouring to catch a fare, it instantly struck the Resurrection
      Man that his unknown patroness might be the occupant of the vehicle, and was waiting for
      him.  
  He accordingly approached the window, and by the reflection of a shop gas-light, perceived
      the veiled lady inside.  
  "Is it you?" she said, unable to distinguish his countenance beneath his slouched hat.  
  "Yes, ma'am. All right," he cried to the driver; and, opening the door, entered the cab.  
  It then moved rapidly away—the driver having evidently received his instructions
      before-hand.  
  "Draw up the window," said the lady.  
  Tidkins obeyed.  
  "You remember your promise to be blindfolded?" continued Adeline.  
  "I have forgotten nothing that passed between us, ma'am."  
  He had taken off his hat upon entering the vehicle; and Adeline now drew over his head a
      large flesh-coloured silk cap, or bag, fitted with a string that enabled her to gather it in
      and fasten it round his neck—but not so tightly as to impede the free current of air.  
  "I am sorry to be compelled to subject you to any inconvenience," she said, loathing herself
      at the same time for being compelled to address this conciliatory language to such a man—a
      murderer by profession!  
  "Don't mention it, ma'am: it's all in the way of business."  
  A profound silence then ensued between them.  
  On his part the Resurrection Man, who was intimately acquainted with London and all its
      multitudinous mazes, endeavoured to follow in his mind the course which the vehicle was
      taking; and for some time he was enabled to calculate it accurately enough. But it presently
      turned off to the left, and shortly afterwards took several windings, which completely baffled
      his reckoning. He accordingly abandoned the labour, and trusted to accident to furnish him
      with the clue which he desired.  
  On her side, Adeline was a prey to the most horrible emotions. Now that she had carried the
      dread proceedings up to the point which they had reached, she recoiled from urging them to the
      awful catastrophe. Vainly did she endeavour to tranquillise herself with the specious
      reasoning that she would not become a murderess, since   her   hands were not to do the
      deed,—or that even if that name must attach itself to her, she was justified in adopting any
      means, however extreme, to rid herself of a remorseless enemy:—vainly did she thus argue:—the
      crime she was about to commit, or to have committed for her, seemed appalling! Often during
      this long ride was she on the point of declaring to her terrible companion that she would stop
      short and abandon the murderous project at once: and then would come soul-harrowing
      remembrances of Lydia's tyranny, accompanied by violent longings after vengeance.  
  Thus did nearly three quarters of an hour pass, when the cab suddenly halted.  
  "Put on your hat—draw up your cloak-collar—and hold down your head as you alight," said
      Adeline in a rapid whisper.  
  The Resurrection Man understood her; and the darkness of the night favoured the precautions
      which Lady Ravensworth had suggested to prevent the driver, who opened the door, from
      observing that Tidkins's face was covered with the flesh-coloured silk.  
  "Wait until our return," said Adeline: "we may not be back for two, or even three hours;—but
      in any case wait."  
  And she placed a piece of gold in the man's hand.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  She then took the arm of Tidkins and hurried him across the fields—for such he could feel
      the soil upon which he was walking to be.  
  In this manner did they proceed for upwards of half an hour, when they reached the fence
      surrounding the gardens of Ravensworth Hall. Adeline opened the wicket by means of a key which
      she had with her, and hurried her companion through the grounds to the private door at the
      southern extremity of the mansion. This she also opened and locked again when they had
      entered. She then conducted the Resurrection Man up the staircase, and finally into her
      boudoir.  
  Guiding him to a chair, she released him from the silk cap; but when it was removed, he
      could perceive nothing—for the room was quite dark.  
  "My enemy is certain to come hither shortly," whispered Adeline: "it may be directly—or it
      may be in an hour;—still she is sure to come. I shall conceal you behind a curtain—in case
         the wrong person   might happen to enter the room by accident. But when any one comes
      in, and you hear me close the door and say '  WRETCH!  ' rush upon her—seize her by
      the throat—and strangle her. Are you strong enough to do this?—  for no blood must be
       shed  ."  
  "Trust to me, ma'am," returned Tidkins. "The woman—whoever she may be—will never speak again
      after my fingers once grasp her neck."  
  Adeline then guided him behind the curtain of her bed; and she herself took her post near
      the door.  
  And now succeeded a most appalling interval of nearly twenty minutes,—appalling only to
      Adeline; for her hardened accomplice was thinking far more of the additional sum he was about
      to earn, than of the deed he was hired to perpetrate.  
  But, Adeline—oh, her thoughts were terrible in the extreme! Not that she dreaded the failure
      of the deadly plot, and a consequent exposure of the whole machination:—no—her plans were too
      well laid to admit that contingency. But she felt her mind harrowing up, as it were, at the
      blackness of the tragedy which was in preparation.  
  Twenty minutes, we said, elapsed:—twenty years of mental agony—twenty thousand of acute
      suffering, did that interval appear to be.  
  At length a step echoed in the corridor;—nearer and nearer it came.  
  Good God! what pangs lacerated the heart of Lady Ravensworth;—and even then—far
      as she had gone—she was on the point of rushing forward, and crying, "No! no!—spare—spare
      her!"  
  But some demon whispered in her ear, "Now is the time for vengeance!"—and she retained her
      post—she stifled the better feelings that had agitated within her—she nerved herself to be
      merciless and unrelenting.  
  She knew that the step approaching was that of Lydia; for Lydia allowed none of the other
      servants to enter her mistress's own private chamber. The reason of this must be obvious to
      the reader:—Lydia only repaired thither for the sake of appearances—and not to do the work
      which it was her duty to perform. No—that had been left for Adeline herself to execute!  
  And now the handle of the lock was agitated—the door opened—and Lydia, bearing a light,
      entered the room.  
  Instantly Adeline closed the door violently—exclaiming, "  Wretch  , your time is
      come!"  
  Lydia started—and dropped the light.  
  But in another second the Resurrection Man, springing like a tiger from his lair, rushed
      upon her from behind the curtain—seized her throat with his iron grasp—and threw her on the
      floor as easily as if she were a child.  
  The light had gone out—and the fearful deed was consummated in the dark.  
  A low gurgling—a suffocating sound—and the convulsions of a body in the agony of death were
      the terrible indications to Adeline that the work was indeed in awful progress!  
  Faint and sick at heart—with whirling brain—and bright sparks flashing from her eyes—Lady
      Ravensworth leant against the door for support.  
  Two minutes thus elapsed—the gurgling sound every instant growing fainter and fainter.  
  Adeline felt as if her own senses were leaving her—as if she were going mad.  
  Suddenly a low, hoarse voice near her whispered, "It's all over!"  
  Then Lady Ravensworth was suddenly recalled to the consciousness of her perilous
      position,—awakened to the necessity of carrying out all her pre-arranged measures of
      precaution to the end.  
  "We must now dispose of the body," she said, in a low and hurried tone. "You must take it on
      your back, and carry it for a short distance, whither I will lead you. But, first—here is a
      bag: it contains two hundred and fifty sovereigns—fifty more than I promised you."  
  The Resurrection Man clutched the gold eagerly:—the weight was sufficient to convince him
      that his patroness was not deceiving him.  
  While he was hugging his ill-earned gains, Adeline hastily felt her way to the bureau,
      opened it, and took forth her casket of jewels. She left the door of the bureau open, and the
      key in the lock.  
  The Resurrection Man now suffered her to replace the silk cap over his head:—what would he
      not have done for one who paid so liberally!  
  Then, taking the body upon his back, he was led by Adeline from the boudoir.  
  They descended the stairs, and passed out of the mansion by the private door, which Adeline
      closed but left the key in the lock.  
  She conducted him through the grounds once more, leaving the wicket open—and proceeded
      across a field, in one corner of which was a large deep pond.  
  A pile of stones was near the brink.  
  "Throw the body upon the ground," said Adeline.  
  The Resurrection Man obeyed, and seated himself quietly by it.  
  Adeline averted her eyes from the pale countenance, on which a faint stream of straggling
      moonlight stole through the darkness of the night;—and rapidly did she busy herself to secure
      her casket of rich jewels and several huge stones about the corpse. This she did by means of a
      strong cord, with which she had provided herself; for—fearful woman!—she had not omitted one
      single detail of her horrible plan—nor did she hesitate to sacrifice her precious casket to
      aid in the assurance of her own safety.  
  When this labour was finished,—and it did not occupy many minutes,—Adeline rolled the body
      down the precipitous bank into the pond.  
  There was a splash—a gurgling sound; and all was still.  
  "By God!" murmured the Resurrection Man; "this is the cleverest woman I ever met in my life.
      I really quite admire her!"  
  The words did not, however, reach the ears of Lady Ravensworth,—or she would have recoiled
      with abhorrence from that fearful admiration which she had excited in the mind of such a
      miscreant—a resurrectionist—a murderer!  
  "Every thing is now finished," said Adeline, breathing more freely. "Let as depart."  
  She led her companion across the fields:—her delicate feet were wet with the dew;—and though
      she felt wearied—oh! so wearied that she was ready to sink,—yet that woman—within a few weeks
      of becoming a mother—was armed with an almost superhuman energy, now that it was too late to
      retreat and her enemy was no more.  
  When they reached the cab, the driver was sleeping on his box; and before he was well awake,
      the Resurrection Man had entered the vehicle.  
  "Back to the place where you took up my companion," said Adeline, as she followed Tidkins
      into the cab.  
  And now she was journeying side by side with one who had just perpetrated a cold-blooded
      murder,—she the promptress—he the instrument!  
  In three quarters of an hour they again stopped at the corner of the Edgeware Road, Adeline
      having removed the cap from the Resurrection Man's head a few minutes previously.  
  The cab was dismissed:—Tidkins had vainly looked to discover its number. Adeline, by bribing
      the driver, had provided against   that   contingency also!  
  "Any other time, ma'am," said Tidkins, "that you require my services—or can recommend me to
      your friends——"  
  "Yes—certainly," interrupted Adeline. "Good night."  
  And she hastened rapidly away.  
  "It's no use for me to attempt to follow her," murmured the Resurrection Man to himself:
      "she is too wary for that."  
  He then pursued his way homewards, well contented with his night's work.  
  housekeeper never suspected she had once quitted it during the day or night.  
  Between three and four o'clock in the morning the rain began to pour down in torrents, and
      continued until past eight,—so that Lady Ravensworth was enabled to assure herself with the
      conviction that even the very footsteps of herself and Anthony Tidkins were effaced from the
      grounds belonging to the Hall, and from the fields in one of which was the pond to whose
      depths the corpse of the murdered victim had been consigned.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXX.   THE EFFECT OF THE ORIENTAL TOBACCO.—THE OLD HAG'S PAPERS.  
  Scarcely had Lady Ravensworth risen from the table, whereon stood the untasted morning meal,
      when the housekeeper of the town-mansion entered the room, and informed her mistress that
      Quentin had just arrived on horseback from the Hall, and requested an immediate audience of
      her ladyship.  
  Adeline was not unprepared for some such circumstance as this; she however affected to
      believe that the sudden appearance of Quentin in town bore reference to the illness of her
      husband; and when the valet entered the apartment, she hastened to meet him, exclaiming, with
      well-assumed anxiety, "Is any thing the matter with your lord? Speak, Quentin—speak!"  
  "His lordship is certainly worse this morning, my lady: but——"  
  "But not dangerously so, Quentin?" cried Adeline, as if tortured by acute suspense and
      apprehension.  
  "My lord is far—very far from well," returned Quentin: "but that is not precisely the object
      of my coming to town so early. The truth is, my lady, that Lydia Hutchinson has decamped."  
  "Lydia gone!" exclaimed Lady Ravensworth.  
  "Yes—my lady. But permit me to ask whether your ladyship brought your jewel-casket to town
      with you yesterday morning."  
  "Certainly not, Quentin: I merely came for a few hours—or at least until this morning——"  
  "Then our worst fears are confirmed!" ejaculated the valet. "Lydia has decamped with your
      ladyship's jewel-case."  
  "The ungrateful wretch!" cried Adeline, feigning deep indignation. "Was she not well treated
      at the Hall? was I a severe mistress to her?"  
  "She was not a favorite with the other dependants of your ladyship's household," observed
      Quentin.  
  "And when did this happen? how did you discover her flight?" demanded Lady Ravensworth.  
  "She was not missed until this morning, my lady; although there is every reason to believe
      that she must have taken her departure last evening. She had agreed with the housekeeper to
      take the first half of the night in watching by the side of Lord Dunstable's bed; but as she
      did not make her appearance at the proper time, it was concluded she had gone to rest, and
      another female domestic took her place. This morning, the gardener found the wicket of the
      southern fence open, and the key in the lock: this circumstance excited his suspicions; and,
      on farther investigation, he also found the key in the lock of the private door at the same
      end of the building. He gave an alarm: a search was instituted; and, after a time, your
      ladyship's chamber was visited, when the bureau was discovered to be open and the casket of
      jewels was missed. The servants were mustered; but Lydia had disappeared; and it was
      subsequently ascertained that her bed had not been slept in all night. Moreover, the
      candlestick which Lydia was in the habit of using when she waited upon your ladyship, was
      found lying in the middle of your ladyship's boudoir, as if it had been hastily flung
      down—probably in a moment of alarm."  
  "And has nothing been missed save my jewels?" demanded Adeline, whose plan had succeeded in
      all its details precisely as she had foreseen.  
  "Nothing—at least so far as we had been enabled to ascertain before I left for town, my
      lady," answered Quentin. "And what is more remarkable still, is that Lydia took none of her
      own things with her. It seems as if she had gone to your ladyship's boudoir, discovered the
      key of the bureau, and finding the jewel-casket there, was suddenly impelled by the idea of
      the theft; so that she decamped that very moment—for it does not appear that she even took a
      shawl, or a cloak, or a bonnet with her; although, of course, as she had been so short a time
      in your ladyship's service, the other female servants scarcely knew what clothes she
      possessed."  
  "But the keys of the private door and the wicket?" exclaimed Adeline: "how came she with
      them?"  
  "They might have been in your ladyship's room—by some accident," answered Quentin, with a
      little embarrassment of manner.  
  "Yes—I believe they were," said Adeline, blushing deeply—for she guessed the cause of the
      valet's hesitation: he was evidently impressed with the idea that his mistress had possessed
      herself of those keys to favor her supposed amour with Colonel Cholmondeley.  
  But she willingly incurred even this suspicion, because, by apparently accounting for the
      keys being in her room, it made the evidence stronger against Lydia Hutchinson.  
  "Does his lordship yet know of this event?" inquired Adeline, after a short pause.  
  "I communicated the fact to his lordship," answered Quentin; "but he treated it with so much
      indifference, that I did not enter into any details. I shall now, with your ladyship's
      permission, repair to Bow Street, and lodge information of the robbery."  
  Lady Ravensworth suffered the valet to reach the door ere she called him back; for nothing
      was more opposed to her plan than the idea of giving any notoriety to the transaction,
      inasmuch as such a course might afford Anthony Tidkins a clue to the entire mystery of the
      transaction in which he had played so important a part.  
  Accordingly, as if impelled by a second thought, she said, "Stay, Quentin: this step must
      not be taken."  
  "What, my lady?" cried the valet, in astonishment.  
  "I must show leniency in this respect," was the answer.  
  "Leniency, my lady, towards one who has robbed your ladyship of jewels worth, as I
      understand, at least two thousand pounds!" ejaculated Quentin, his surprise increasing.  
  deeply interested—I scarcely know exactly why—in this young woman; and I feel
      convinced that she would rather induce her husband Sir Cherry to repay me for the loss of my
      jewels, than see Lydia Hutchinson, bad though she must be, involved in so serious a dilemma. I
      shall therefore feel obliged to you, Quentin, to keep the affair as secret as possible—at
      least until I have communicated with Lady Bounce."  
  "Your ladyship's commands shall be obeyed," said the obsequious valet, with a bow. "In this
      case, I may return immediately to the Park."  
  "Let the carriage be got ready, and I will myself hasten thither," answered Adeline; "as you
      say that his lordship is somewhat worse."  
  Quentin retired, well persuaded in his own mind that the leniency of his mistress was caused
      by her fears lest the presumed fact of the keys of the private door and the wicket having been
      kept in her room might lead to inquiries calculated to bring to light her supposed amour with
      Colonel Cholmondeley.  
  Thus was it that one of the engines of Lydia's vengeance,—namely, the trick by which she had
      induced the Colonel to enter her mistress's boudoir, and the fact of making the other servants
      privy to that visit,—now materially served the purposes of Adeline.  
  In a quarter of an hour the carriage was ready; and Lady Ravensworth was soon on her way
      back to the Hall.  
  On her arrival, she found that the circumstance of Lydia Hutchinson's disappearance had
      yielded in interest to one of a more grave and absorbing character.  
  Lord Ravensworth was dying!  
  She hastened to his apartment, and found him lying in bed—in a state of complete
      insensibility—and attended by Mr. Graham, who had sent off an express to town (by a shorter
      way than the main road by which Adeline had returned) for eminent medical assistance.  
  It appeared that about an hour previously the nobleman's bell had rung violently; and when
      the servants hurried to the room, they found their master in a fit. He had probably felt
      himself suddenly attacked with an alarming symptom, and staggered from his chair to the
      bell-rope, and had then fallen upon the floor. Mr. Graham had been immediately summoned; and
      by his orders Lord Ravensworth was conveyed to bed.  
  But he had continued insensible—with his eyes closed; and the only sign of life was given by
      his faint, low breathing.  
  It is scarcely necessary to state that Mr. Graham exerted all his skill on behalf of the
      dying man.  
  Adeline affected the deepest sorrow at the condition in which she found her husband;—but the
      only grief which she really experienced was caused by the prospect of being shortly compelled
      to resign all control over the broad lands of Ravensworth, in case her as yet unborn child
      should prove a daughter.  
  In the course of the day two eminent physicians arrived from London; but the condition of
      Lord Ravensworth was hopeless: nothing could arouse him from the torpor in which he was
      plunged; and in the evening he breathed his last.  
  Thus was it that this nobleman had at length accomplished—involuntarily accomplished—his
      self-destruction by the use of the oriental tobacco sent to him by his brother Gilbert
      Vernon!  
  On the first day of February there had been a marriage at Ravensworth Hall: on the sixteenth
      there was a funeral.  
  How closely does mourning follow upon the heels of rejoicing, in this world!  
  On the same night when Lord Ravensworth breathed his last, the following scene occurred in
      London.  
  It was about eleven o'clock when the Resurrection Man and Mr. Banks entered the cell in
      which the old woman was confined.  
  "Is your labour done?" demanded Tidkins, in a surly tone, as if he expected a farther delay
      in the business.  
  "God be thanked!" returned the foul hag; "it is complete."  
  And she pointed to several sheets of paper, written upon in a hand which showed that the
      harridan had been no contemptible pen-woman in her younger days.  
  The Resurrection Man greedily seized the manuscript, and began to scrutinise each
      consecutive page. As he read, his countenance displayed grim signs of satisfaction; and when,
      at the expiration of a quarter of an hour, he consigned the papers to his pocket, he said,
      "Well, by what I have seen this really looks like business."  
  "The old wessel has done her dooty at last," observed Mr. Banks, shaking his head solemnly;
      "and what a blessed consolation it must be for her to know that she has made a friend of you
      that's able to protect her from her enemies while she lives, and of me that'll bury her on the
      newest and most economic principles when she's nothing more than a defunct old carkiss."  
  "Consolation, indeed!" cried Tidkins: then, counting down ten sovereigns upon the table, he
      said, "Here's what I promised you, old woman, for the fulfilment of the first condition. Now
      me and Banks will take you home again; and when you give me up the written proofs you spoke
      of, you shall have t'other ten quids."  
  "Alack! I've earned these shining pieces well," muttered the hag, as she wrapped the
      sovereigns in a morsel of paper, and concealed them under her clothes.  
  The Resurrection Man now proceeded to blindfold her carefully; and the operation reminded
      him of the process to which he had submitted on the preceding night, at the hands of his
      veiled patroness. He next helped the old woman to put on her cloak, the hood of which he threw
      over her bonnet so that a portion of it concealed her face; and Banks then led her away from
      the subterranean, while Tidkins remained behind them for a few moments to secure the
      doors.  
  The party now proceeded, by the most unfrequented streets, through Globe Town into Bethnal
      Green; but it was not until they reached Shoreditch, that the Resurrection Man removed the
      bandage from the old hag's eyes.  
  Then she gazed rapidly around her, to ascertain where she was.  
  "Ah! you'll never guess where you've been locked up for the last ten or twelve days," said
      the Resurrection Man, with a low chuckle.  
  "Never—as sure as she's a sinful old creetur'!" remarked Banks.  
  The worthy trio then pursued their way to Golden Lane.  
  On their arrival at the court, the hag uttered an exclamation of delight when she beheld the
      filthy place of her abode once more: but her joy was suddenly changed into sadness as a
      thought struck her; and she exclaimed, "I wonder what has become of the poor dear children
      that are dependant on me?"  
  She alluded to the juvenile prostitutes whom she had tutored in the ways of vice.  
  Heaving a deep sigh at the reflection, she took a key from her pocket, and opened the door
      of her house.  
  A little delay occurred in obtaining a light; but at length she found a candle and matches
      in a cupboard at the end of the passage.  
  Mr. Banks now officiously opened the door of the old woman's parlour; but this act was
      followed by a sweeping, rustling noise—and the undertaker started back, uttering a yell of
      agony.  
  The hag screamed too, and nearly dropped the light; for her large black cat had flown at
      Banks as he entered the room.  
  The fact was that the poor animal had been left in that apartment, when the old woman first
      set out with the Resurrection Man and the undertaker for Hounslow; and it had gone mad through
      starvation.  
  Tidkins rushed forward the moment his friend gave vent to that scream of anguish, and caught
      the cat by the neck and hind legs with his powerful fingers, as it clung, furious with rage,
      to the breast of the undertaker, whose dingy shirt frill and front its claws tore to rags.  
  "Don't strangle it—don't strangle it!" cried the hag, with unfeigned anxiety—for the only
      thing she loved in the world was her huge black cat.  
  "Stand back, old witch!" exclaimed Tidkins: "this beast is capable of tearing you to
      pieces."  
  And in spite of the violent pressure he maintained with his fingers upon its throat, the
      animal struggled fearfully.  
  "They say the cussed wessel has nine lives," observed Mr. Banks, dolefully, as he beheld the
      tattered state of his linen and smarted with the pain of the cat's scratches upon his
      chest.  
  "Don't kill it, I say!" again screamed the hag: "it will be good with me—it will be good
      with me."  
  "Too late to intercede," said the Resurrection Man, coolly, as he literally wrung the cat's
      neck: then he tossed the carcass from him upon the stairs.  
  "Poor thing!" murmured the old woman: "poor thing! I will bury it decently in the yard
      to-morrow morning."  
  And she actually wiped away a tear,—she who felt no pity, no compunction, no sympathy in
      favour of a human soul!  
  "She'll bury it, will she?" muttered Banks, endeavouring to smooth his linen: "on economic
      principles, I suppose."  
  The trio then entered the parlour: but before she could compose herself to attend to
      business, the old hag was compelled to have recourse to her gin; and fortunately there was
      some in her bottle. Her two companions refreshed themselves in a similar manner; and Tidkins
      then said, "Now for the proofs of all you've said in your history."  
  "Not all—not all: I never said all," cried the hag; "only of a part. And so, if you will lay
      the other ten sovereigns on the table, you shall have the papers."  
  The old woman spoke more confidently now; for she felt herself to be less in the power of
      her two companions than she so lately was.  
  The Resurrection Man understood her, and smiled grimly, as he counted the money before
      her.  
  She then took a pair of scissors, cut a small hole in the mattress of her bed, and drew
      forth a pocket-book, which she handed to Tidkins.  
  It was tied round with a piece of riband—once pink, now faded to a dingy white; and its
      contents were several letters.  
  The Resurrection Man glanced over their superscriptions, muttering to himself, "Well, you
      have not deceived me: I have brought you to reason—I thought I should. Ha! what have we here?
       '  To Mr. Markham, Markham Place, Lower Holloway.  '—And here is another to him—and
      another.—But this next is different. '  To the Marquis of Holmesford, Holmesford
      House.  '—Slap-up fellow, that—a regular old rake: keeps a harem, they say.—And here is
      another to him.—Then we have one—two—three, all directed alike—to '  Mrs. Wilmot  ,' and
      no address: conveyed by hand, I suppose. And that's all."  
  With a complacent smile—as complacent as a smile on such a countenance could be—the
      Resurrection Man secured the pocket-book with its contents about his person.  
  He and Banks then took their leave of the old woman.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXI.   THE RETURN TO ENGLAND.  
  It was on a beautiful morning, in the first week of March, that a large war-steamer passed
      Gravesend, and pursued its rapid way towards Woolwich.  
  She was a splendid vessel, rigged as a frigate, and carrying twelve carronades. Her hull was
      entirely black, save in respect to the gilding of her figurehead and of her stern-windows; but
      her interior was fitted up in a style of costly magnificence. Large mirrors, chaste carving,
      rich carpets, and soft ottomans gave to the chief cabin the air of a princely
      drawing-room.  
  On the deck every thing denoted the nicest order and discipline. The sailors performed their
      duties with that alacrity and skill which ever characterise men-of-war's men who are commanded
      by experienced officers; and two marines, with shouldered firelocks, paced the quarter-deck
      with measured steps.  
  The white sails were all neatly furled; for the gallant vessel was now progressing by the
      aid of that grand power which has achieved such marvellous changes on the face of the earth.
      The tall chimney sent forth a volume of black smoke; and the bosom of the mighty river was
      agitated into high and foam-crested billows by the play of the vast paddle-wheels.  
  From the summit of the main-mast floated the royal standard of Castelcicala.  
  And on the deck, in the uniform of a general officer, and with a star upon his breast, stood
      the Marquis of Estella, conversing with his   aides-de-camp  .  
  At a short distance was Morcar—in plain, private clothes.  
  Richard was now returning to his native shore—occupying in the world a far more exalted
      position than, in his wildest imaginings, he could ever have hoped to attain. He had left
      England as an obscure individual—a subordinate in a chivalrous expedition—under the authority
      of others:—he came back with a star upon his breast—having achieved for himself a renown which
      placed him amongst the greatest warriors of the age! Unmarked by title, unknown to fame, was
      he when he had bade adieu to the white cliffs of Albion a few months previously:—as the Regent
      of a country liberated by himself—as a Marquis who had acquired nobility by his own great
      deeds, did he now welcome his native clime once more.  
  Tears of joy stood in his eyes—emotions of ineffable bliss arose in his bosom, as he thought
      of what he had been, and what he now was.  
  But vanity was not the feeling thus gratified: at the same time, to assert that our hero was
      not proud of the glorious elevation which he had reached by his own merits, would be to deny
      him the possession of that laudable ambition which is an honour to those who entertain it.
      There is, however, a vast distinction between vanity and a proper pride: the former is a
      weakness—the latter the element of moral strength.  
  Yes: Richard   was   proud—but not unduly so—of the honours which were now associated
      with his name;—proud, because he had dashed aside every barrier that had once seemed
      insuperable between the Princess and himself.  
  And, oh! he was happy, too—supremely happy; for he knew that when he landed at Woolwich he
      should behold her whom we have before declared to be the only joy of his heart—the charming
      and well-beloved Isabella!  
  The gallant steamer pursued its way: Erith is passed;—and soon Woolwich is in sight.  
  And now the cannon roars from the English arsenal: the volumes of white smoke sweep over the
      bosom of the Thames;—the artillery salutes the royal standard of Castelcicala.  
  The troops are drawn up in front of the barracks to do honour to their heroic
      fellow-countryman, who retains his almost sovereign rank until the moment when he shall resign
      it into the hands of that Prince on whose brow he has come to place a diadem.  
  It is low water; and the Castelcicalan steamer drops her anchor at some little distance from
      the wharf. Then, under a salute from the cannon of the gallant vessel, the Marquis of Estella
      descends into a barge which has been sent from the arsenal to waft him ashore.  
  But while he is still at a distance from the wharf his quick eye discerns well-known forms
      standing near the spot where he is to land. There are the Grand-Duke Alberto and the
      Grand-Duchess, attended by the commandant of Woolwich and his staff; and leaning on her
      father's arm, is also the Princess Isabella.  
  The Grand-Duke is in plain clothes: he has come as it were incognito, and as a friend, to
      receive him to whom he is indebted for that throne which awaits him; and he is moreover
      anxious that all the honours proffered on this occasion shall be acknowledged by him who still
      bears the rank of Regent of Castelcicala.  
  The barge touches the steps: Richard leaps ashore. He hurries up the stairs—he stands upon
      the wharf; and, while the guard of honour of British soldiers presents arms, he is
      affectionately embraced by the Grand-Duke.  
  "Welcome—welcome, noble youth!" exclaimed Alberto, straining him to his breast, as if he
      were a dearly beloved son.  
  "I thank heaven, that you, most gracious sovereign, are pleased with my humble exertions in
      favour of Castelcicalan freedom," replied Markham, whose heart was so full that he could with
      difficulty give utterance to those words.  
  "Humble exertions do you call them!" cried the Grand-Duke. "At all events they have deserved
      the highest reward which it is in my power to offer."  
  And, as he thus spoke, Alberto placed the hand of our hero in that of the beauteous
      Isabella, while the Grand-Duchess said in a voice tremulous with joyful emotion, "Yes, dear
      Richard—you are now our son!"  
  Markham thanked the parents of his beloved with a rapid but expressive glance of the deepest
      gratitude; and he and Isabella exchanged looks of ineffable tenderness, as they pressed each
      other's hand in deep silence—for their hearts were too full to allow their lips to utter a
      syllable.  
  But those looks—how eloquent were they! They spoke of hopes long entertained—often dim and
      overclouded—but never completely abandoned—and now realized at last!  
  To appreciate duly the sweets of life, we should have frequently tasted its bitters; for it
      is by the influence of contrast, that the extent of either can be fully understood. Those who
      have been prosperous in their loves,—who have met with no objections at the hands of parents,
      and who have not been compelled to wrestle against adverse circumstances,—are incapable of
      understanding the amount of that bliss which was now experienced by Richard and Isabella. It
      was indeed a reward—an adequate recompense for all the fears they had entertained, the sighs
      they had heaved, and the tears they had shed on account of each other!  
  And we ourselves, reader, pen these lines with heart-felt pleasure; for there are times—and
      the present occasion is one—when we have almost fancied that our hero and heroine were real,
      living characters, whom we had seen often and known well;—and we are vain enough to hope that
      this feeling has not been confined to our own breast. Yes—we can picture to ourselves, with
      all its enthusiasm, that delightful scene when the handsome young man,—handsomer than ever in
      the uniform which denoted his high rank,—exchanged those glances of ineffable tenderness and
      devoted love with the charming Italian maiden,—more charming than ever with the light of bliss
      that shone in her eyes, made her sweet bosom heave, and brought to her cheeks a carnation glow
      beneath the faint tint of   bistre   which denoted her southern origin without marring
      the transparency of her pure complexion.  
  And now, the first delights of this meeting over, Richard presented his
         aides-de-camp   to the illustrious family; then, beckoning Morcar towards
      him, he took the gipsy by the hand, saying, "It is to this faithful friend that Castelcicala
      is indebted for the first step in that glorious career which was finally crowned with triumph
      beneath the walls of Montoni."  
  "And I, as the sovereign of Castelcicala," returned the Grand-Duke, shaking
      Morcar warmly by the hand, "shall find means to testify my gratitude."  
  "Your Serene Highness will pardon me," said Morcar, in a firm but deferential manner, "if I
      decline any reward for the humble share I enjoyed in those successes of which his lordship ere
      now spoke. No:—the poor Zingaree has only done his duty towards a master whom he loved—and
      loves," continued Morcar, looking at Richard and dashing away a tear at the same time; "and it
      only remains for him to return to his family—and to his roving life. The sole favour I have to
      ask at the hands of these whom I have now the honour to address, is that when they hear—as
      they often may—the name of   Gipsy   vilified and abused, they will declare their belief
      that there are a few favourable exceptions."  
  "But is it possible that I can do nothing to serve you?" exclaimed the Duke, struck by the
      extreme modesty and propriety of the Zingaree's words and manner. "Consider how I may
      ameliorate your condition."  
  "I require nothing, your Highness," answered Morcar, in the same respectful but firm tone as
      before,—"nothing save the favour which I have demanded at your hands. No recompense could
      outweigh with me the advantage which I have received from the contemplation of a character as
      good as he is great—as noble by nature as he now is by name," continued the gipsy, once more
      looking affectionately towards Markham;—"and, from the moral influence of his society and
      example, I shall return to my people a new man—a better man!"  
  Having thus spoken, Morcar wrung the hand of our hero with a fraternal warmth, and was about
      to hurry away,—leaving all his hearers deeply affected at the words which he had uttered,—when
      Isabella stepped forward, caught him gently by the arm, and said in her sweet musical voice,
      now so tremulously clear,—"But you have a wife, Morcar; and you must tell her that the
      Princess Isabella is her friend! Nor will you refuse to present her with this small token of
      that regard which I proffer her."  
  Thus speaking, the Princess unfastened a gold chain from her neck, and forced it upon
      Morcar.  
  "Yes, lady," said the gipsy, "Eva shall accept that gift from you; and she shall pray
      morning and night for your happiness. Nay, more," he added, sinking his voice almost to a
      whisper, "she shall hold up to her son the example of him who is destined, lady, to make you
      the happiest woman upon earth."  
  With these words, Morcar hurried away—hastened down the steps, leapt into a wherry, and
      directed the rowers to push the boat instantly from the wharf.  
  When it was some yards distant, Morcar turned his head towards the group upon the quay, and
      waved his hand in token of adieu;—and every member of that group returned his salutation with
      gestures that expressed the kindest feelings towards him.  
  The party now proceeded to the residence of the commandant, where a splendid
         déjeuner   was served up. Richard sate next to his Isabella, and was
      supremely happy.  
  "Oh! how rejoiced shall I feel," he whispered to her, "when we can escape from all the
      ceremony which accompanies rank and power, and indulge uninterruptedly in that discourse which
      is so dear to hearts that love like ours! For I have so much to tell you, beloved one; and now
      that all the perils of war and strife are past, I can look with calmness upon that series of
      events of which I was only enabled to send you such slight and rapid accounts. But, believe
      me, Isabella—I would much rather have come back to my native shores unattended by all that
      ostentation and formal observance which have accompanied my return: nevertheless, the high
      office with which I was invested, and the respect due to your father by the one who came to
      announce with befitting ceremony that a throne awaited him, demanded the presence of that
      state and required that public demonstration. You must not, however, imagine, dearest one,
      that a sudden elevation has made me vain."  
  "I have too high an opinion of your character, Richard," answered Isabella, "to entertain
      such an idea for a single moment. I know that you are not unduly proud; but I, Richard, am
      proud—proud of you!"  
  "And yet, dear girl," whispered our hero, "all I have done has been but through the
      prompting of your image; and so did I write to you in the evening after that dreadful battle
      which decided the fate of Castelcicala."  
  "Ah! Richard, you know not the deep suspense which we experienced, and the moments of
      indescribable alarm which   I   felt, during the intervals between the letters announcing
      your several successes," said the Princess. "But all fear has now vanished—and happiness has
      taken its place. When we glance at the past, it will only be to rejoice at those events which
      have prepared so much joy for the future. Do you not remember how often I bade you hope, when
      you were desponding? Oh! heaven has indeed rewarded you, by placing you in so proud a
      position, for all the misfortunes which you have endured."  
  "Rank and honours were nothing in my estimation," answered Richard, "had they not removed
      the obstacles which separated me from you!"  
  A domestic now entered and stated that the carriages were in readiness; and the illustrious
      party, having taken leave of the commandant and officers of the garrison, proceeded to the
      mansion at Richmond.  
  Alberto and Richard Markham were then closeted for some time together. Our hero presented
      his Highness with the official despatches from the Ministers announcing his proclamation as
      Grand-Duke, and inviting him to return to Castelcicala to take possession of the throne.  
  "Your Serene Highness will not deem me presumptuous," said Richard, when these documents had
      been perused, "in accepting the executive sway immediately after the battle of Montoni. My
      object was to ensure the tranquillity of the country, and to lay the foundation of that
      liberal system of government which I knew to be congenial to the sentiments of your Highness.
      I appointed a Ministry formed of men who had shown their devotion to the Constitutional cause,
      and who were worthy of the confidence thus reposed in them. With respect to the late
      sovereign, Angelo III., I learnt a few hours ere my departure, that he had taken refuge in
      Austria; but in reference to the Grand-Duchess Eliza I have obtained no tidings."  
  "I cordially approve of every step you have taken, my dear Richard," replied the
      Grand-Duke: "your conduct has been beyond all praise. I expressed that opinion in the letter
      which I wrote to you, and wherein I informed you that I should wait in England until you came
      in person to announce to me the desire of the Castelcicalans that I should become their
      sovereign. I have, as I told you in my communication, only just recovered from a severe
      illness; but my duty to my country requires that I should return thither as soon as possible.
      In four days I shall embark on board the ship that brought you to England."  
  "So soon, my lord?" cried Markham, somewhat uneasily.  
  "I should leave England to-morrow, had I not one solemn but joyful task to accomplish,"
      answered the Duke with a smile. "Fear not, dear Richard, that I shall delay your happiness any
      longer; for if you yourself do not consider the haste indelicate, I purpose to bestow Isabella
      upon you the day after to-morrow."  
  "Oh! my lord—what happiness!—and what deep gratitude do I owe you!" exclaimed Richard,
      falling upon his knees, and pressing the sovereign's hand to his lips.  
  "Rise, Richard—rise," said the Grand-Duke: "you owe me no gratitude—for you forget how
      deeply I am your debtor! You have delivered my native land from an odious tyranny—although it
      be of my own relative of whom I am compelled to speak thus severely; and you have given me a
      throne. In return I bestow upon you the dearest of all my earthly treasures—my daughter!"  
  "And the study of my life shall be her happiness," replied our hero. "But I have one great
      and signal favour to implore of your Highness; and I tremble to ask it—lest you should receive
      my prayer coldly."  
  "What is there that you should hesitate to ask or that I could refuse to grant?" exclaimed
      the Grand-Duke. "Speak, Richard:—the favour—if favour it be—is already accorded."  
  "Your Highness must be informed," continued Richard, thus encouraged, "that I have various
      duties to accomplish, which demand my presence for some time in England. I have an old friend
      and his daughter dependant upon me: I must settle them in a comfortable manner, to ensure
      their happiness. There is also a young female named Katherine Wilmot,—whose history I will
      relate to your Highness at a more convenient period,—but to whom I have been in some measure
      left guardian. By letters which I received a few days before my departure, I learnt that she
      is residing at my house, with my old friend and his daughter. It will be my duty to arrange
      plans for the welfare of Katherine. This I should wish to do in concert with Isabella. Lastly,
      my lord, I have the hope of meeting my brother—should he be still alive," added Richard, with
      a sigh. "Your Highness is aware of our singular appointment for the 10th of July, 1843."  
  The Grand-Duke reflected profoundly for some minutes; and Richard awaited his answer with
      intense anxiety.  
  "You shall have your will, noble-hearted young man!" at length cried Alberto: "I was wrong
      to hesitate even for a moment; but you will pardon me when you remember that in granting your
      request, I consent to a long—long separation from my daughter."  
  "But when the time for the appointment with my brother shall have passed," said Richard
      "Isabella and myself will hasten to Montoni; and then, God grant that you may be parted from
      your daughter no more in this life."  
  "Would it be impossible for you to effect a species of compromise with me in this way?"
      returned Alberto, with a smile. "Provide for those who are dependant on you; and when that
      duty is accomplished, pass at Montoni the interval until the period of the appointment with
      your brother shall demand your return to London."  
  "I would submit to your Highness this fact," answered Richard,—"that I live in constant hope
      of the reappearance of my brother ere the stated time; and should he seek me in the
      interval—should he be poor or unhappy—should he require my aid or consolation—if I were far
      away——"  
  "I understand you," interrupted the Grand-Duke. "Be it as you say. Provided Isabella will
      consent," he added, smiling, "you shall remain in England until the autumn of 1843."  
  "Much as the Princess will grieve to separate from her parents——"  
  "You think she will be content to stay in this country with you," again interrupted the
      Duke, laughing. "I see that you have already planned every thing in your own way; and both the
      Grand-Duchess and myself are too much pleased with you—too willing to testify our regard for
      you—and too anxious to make reparation for the past," added his Serene Highness significantly,
      "to oppose your projects in the slightest degree. It shall be all as you desire."  
  "Your Highnesses will then render me completely happy," exclaimed Richard, again pressing
      the Duke's hand to his lips.  
  Alberto then rang the bell, and commanded the domestic who answered the summons to request
      the presence of the Grand-Duchess and the Princess.  
  Those illustrious ladies soon made their appearance—Isabella's heart fluttering with a kind
      of joyful suspense, for she full well divined at least   one topic   that had been
      discussed during the private interview of her father and her lover.  
  The two latter rose as the ladies entered the room.  
  are past! And that he may give even a title to his bride and accompany her to the
      altar with that proper independence which should belong to the character of the husband, it is
      my will to create him   Prince of Montoni  ; and here is the decree which I have already
      prepared to that effect, and to which I have affixed my royal seal."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  With these words the Grand-Duke took from the table a paper which he presented to our hero,
      who received it on his bended knee.  
  He then rose: Alberto placed the hand of Isabella in his; and the young lovers flew into
      each other's arms.  
  The parents exchanged glances of unfeigned satisfaction as they witnessed the happiness of
      their charming daughter and of him whom she loved so faithfully and so well.  
  Dinner was shortly announced; and around the table were smiling faces gathered that
      evening.  
  At nine o'clock Richard took his departure alone in the Grand-Duke's carriage; for he had
      transferred his own   aides-de-camp   to the service of their sovereign.  
  But when he bade farewell to Isabella on this occasion, it was with the certainty of seeing
      each other again in a short time; and they inwardly thanked heaven that their meeting was no
      longer clandestine, and that their attachment was at length sanctioned by the parents of the
      charming maiden.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXII.   THE ARRIVAL AT HOME.  
  On the same evening Mr. Monroe, Ellen, and Katharine were assembled in the drawing-room at
      Markham Place.  
  The lamp burnt bright, and there were books open upon the table; but none of the little
      party had any inclination to read:—some event of importance was evidently expected.  
  "He will assuredly return this evening," observed Mr. Monroe, after a long pause in the
      conversation. "The last letter he wrote to us was positive in naming the day when he
      calculated upon arriving in England."  
  come back to his native land in one of the government steamers of Castelcicala,"
      said Ellen, "it is impossible to conjecture what delay adverse weather may have caused."  
  "True," exclaimed Mr. Monroe; and he walked to the window, whence he looked forth into the
      bright clear night.  
  It is a strange fact that whenever people are expecting the arrival of some one near or dear
      to them, they invariably go to the windows, where they watch with a sort of nervous
      agitation—as if by so doing they could hasten the coming which they anticipate.  
  The two young ladies drew close to each other on the sofa, and exchanged a few words in
      whispers.  
  "You seem low-spirited, dearest Kate," said Ellen; "and yet our benefactor is about to
      return to us. I feel convinced that you are more annoyed than you choose to confess, on
      account of the, non-appearance of the handsome stranger."  
  "I should be telling you an untruth, Ellen," answered Kate, blushing deeply, "were I to
      declare that I do not sometimes think of him whom you alluded to. But have I not another cause
      of vexation? do you imagine that the recent interview which I had with that odious Mr.
      Banks——"  
  "Yes, dear Kate: all that he told you was well calculated to render you anxious and
      unsettled in mind," interrupted Ellen. "But it was necessary to await the return of him who
      can best counsel you; and the time now approaches when you may communicate to Richard all that
      has passed."  
  Katherine was about to reply, when Mr. Monroe, who was still watching at the window,
      suddenly exclaimed, "A carriage—at last!"  
  The two young ladies hurried to the casement, and beheld the lamps of the vehicle rapidly
      approaching, while the sound of its wheels also reached their ears.  
  Then they both hastened from the room, followed by Mr. Monroe, to receive Markham the moment
      he should alight.  
  Whittingham and Marian joined them; and the whole party was stationed on the steps of the
      front door when the carriage drove up.  
  In another moment Richard was amongst them; and there were such congratulations—such shaking
      of hands—and such proofs of joy as were seldom known or seen even on occasions of similar
      happiness.  
  As for the old butler, he was literally mad with the excitement of his feelings. He hugged
      his young master with a warmth that could not possibly have been exceeded had they stood in
      the relation of father and son, and the fervour of which considerably deranged the position of
      our hero's epaulettes and aiguillettes—for he was in his uniform, as the reader will remember.
      Then, when Whittingham had thus far testified his joy at his master's return, he seized upon
      Marian and compelled her to perform three or four rapid pirouettes with him in the hall—to the
      infinite peril of that good woman's equilibrium. She disengaged herself from him with
      considerable difficulty; and the old man, quite overcome by his feelings and performances,
      sate down in one of the hall-chairs, and began to whimper like a child—exclaiming as well as
      he could, "Don't mind me—don't mind me! I can't help it! It's the unawoidable commotions
      here!" and he slapped his breast. "Master Richard's come back to the home of his successors;
      and he's a great man too—in spite of all that them willains Marlborough and Axminster once did
      to him!"  
  "Compose yourself, my excellent old friend," said the young Prince, pressing Whittingham's
      hand: "I am indeed come back—and to remain, too, for a long—long time."  
  The footman who attended upon the Grand-Duke's carriage now approached our hero, and with
      head uncovered, said in a tone of extreme deference, "Is it the pleasure of your Highness that
      the chariot should remain, or return to Richmond?"  
  "I wish you to stay here until the morning," answered Richard; "as I shall visit his Serene
      Highness to-morrow."  
  The footman bowed, and retreating to the hall-steps, cried aloud to the coachman, "The
      Prince commands us to remain."  
  "Hey! what's that?" ejaculated Whittingham, who, together with the others present, had
      caught those swelling titles. "I heerd, Master Richard, that you was a Markiss; but——"  
  "It has pleased the gracious sovereign to whose service I have the honour to belong, to
      invest me with the rank which has surprised you," answered Richard, laughing at his old
      dependant's bewilderment: "at the same time I can assure you that you will please me best by
      addressing me ever as you have been accustomed to do from my childhood."  
  The butler seemed to reflect profoundly for a few moments, with his eyes fixed on the marble
      floor then, suddenly raising his head, he exclaimed, "No, Master Richard—it can't be done! It
      would be to treat you as if you was still a boy. There's such a thing in the world as
      epaulette—etiquette, I mean; and I know myself better than to lose sight on it. Besides,
      Master Richard—it isn't every one as is butler to a Prince; and I'm proud of the office. So
      now I've called you   Master Richard   for the last time. Marian, bustle about the
      supper—and see that the servants with the carriage is well taken care of. You can show 'em
      round to the stables; while I light his Highness to the drawing-room."  
  Having issued these commands in a tone of pompous importance which the old man had not
      adopted for some years past, he seized a candle and led the way in a solemn and dignified
      manner up stairs.  
  "Poor Whittingham scarcely knows whether he stands on his head or his feet," whispered
      Richard, laughing, to Ellen and Katharine, as he placed himself between them, and gave them
      each an arm. "Let us, however, humour the good old man, and ascend with due ceremony to the
      drawing-room."  
  The reader will not require us to detail all the conversation which ensued. Markham had so
      much to tell, and his hearers so much to learn, that the time slipped away with lightning
      speed. Our hero not only related at length all that had occurred to him in Italy, but also
      entered upon explanations which he had never broached before relative to his attachment to
      Isabella. He made Whittingham sit down and listen to all he had to say; and he concluded by
      acquainting those present with his intended marriage.  
  large enough for us all—even for those servants whom it will now be necessary to
      add to our establishment, and who will increase the department over which you, my faithful
      friend,"—addressing himself to Whittingham,—"preside so ably."  
  "I shall know how to distrain 'em all in order, my lord," said the butler, with an air of
      considerable importance.  
  Ellen's countenance had suddenly become thoughtful, when she heard that Richard was so
      shortly to be married.  
  Leaning towards him, as she sate by his side, she murmured in a hasty whisper, "Tell
      Whittingham to leave the room: I wish to speak to you and my father immediately."  
  Markham requested the old man to see that the servants of the Grand-Duke were well cared
      for; and Whittingham accordingly withdrew.  
  Richard then glanced inquiringly towards Ellen, who rose and whispered to Katherine, "Leave
      us, my sweet friend, for a few moments: I wish to speak to Richard and my father on a subject
      which nearly concerns myself."  
  Kate cheerfully complied with this request, and retired.  
  "What does this mean, Ellen?" inquired Richard with some degree of anxiety. "God grant that
      no cause of unhappiness may interrupt the joy of my return!"  
  "No—reassure yourself on that head," said Ellen. "My dear benefactor—and you, beloved
      father—listen to me for a few moments. You, Richard, are about to bring home a bride whom you
      love—whom you respect—and who must be respected,—a lady endowed with every quality that can
      render her worthy of you,—pure, chaste, and stainless as snow. Richard, she must not be placed
      in the companionship of one who occupies an equivocal situation in society—like myself!"  
  "Ellen, my Isabella is of too generous—too charitable a mind——" began Richard, deeply
      affected by these words, which recalled so many unpleasant reminiscences with respect to
      Monroe's daughter.  
  "Nay—hear me out," continued Ellen, with a sweet smile of gratitude for the sentiment which
      Markham had half expressed: "I shall not keep you in suspense for many moments. You wish me to
      be the companion of your Isabella, Richard?—I will be so—and not altogether unworthily either
      in respect to her or to myself. And now I am about to communicate to you both a secret which I
      should have treasured up until the proper time to elucidate it had arrived—were it not for the
      approaching event which has compelled me to break silence. But in imparting this secret, I
      must confide in your goodness—your forbearance—not to ask me more than I dare reveal.
      Richard—father—I am married!"  
  "Married!" repeated our hero, joyfully.  
  "Come to my arms, Ellen!" cried Mr. Monroe: "let me embrace you fondly—for now indeed are
      you my own daughter for whom I need not blush!"  
  And he pressed her to his heart with the warmest enthusiasm of paternal affection.  
  "Yes," continued Ellen, after a short pause, "I am married—married, too, to the father of my
      child;—and that is all that I dare reveal to you at present! I implore you—I beseech you both
      to ask me no questions; for I could not respond truly to them, and be consistent with a solemn
      promise of temporary secrecy which I have pledged to my husband! The motives of that mystery
      are not dishonourable, and do not rest with me. In two or three years there will be no
      necessity to keep silent. And now tell me, dear father—tell me, Richard—have you sufficient
      confidence in me, to believe what I have unfolded you, without knowing more?"  
  "Believe you, Ellen!" exclaimed Markham: "oh why should I doubt you? Your motive in
      revealing the happy fact of your marriage—a motive instigated by delicacy towards her who is
      so soon to accompany me to the altar—is so generous, so pure, so noble, that it speaks volumes
      in your favour, Ellen; and I love you as a sister—a very dear sister."  
  "Yes—it is with a brother's love that you must regard me," exclaimed Ellen, emphatically and
      joyfully; "and you know not what happiness your assurance imparts to me! Let me not, however,
      be misunderstood in any thing that I have already stated. I would not have you infer that I
      have been married long—nor that I was a wife when I became a mother," continued Ellen, casting
      down her eyes, and blushing deeply. "No—it was only on the 3d of January, in the present year,
      that I was united to him who will one day give a father's name to his child."  
  "I care not to know more, Ellen!" exclaimed Mr. Monroe. "You are a wife—and your son, as he
      grows up, need never be made acquainted with the true date of his parents' union. That
      innocent deception will be necessary."  
  "Your father is satisfied—and I am satisfied, dear Ellen," said Richard: "we should be wrong
      to seek to penetrate into a secret which your good sense would not induce you to retain
      inviolable without sufficient motives. I cannot express to you my joy at the revelation which
      you have made; and, believe me, you will now have no cause to blush in the presence of my
      Isabella."  
  "Father—Richard," murmured Ellen, pressing their hands affectionately in her own, "you have
      made me happy—because you have placed confidence in my word!"  
  And as tears of joy stood in her large melting blue eyes, and her face and neck were
      suffused in blushes, how beautiful did she appear—sweet Ellen!  
  "You have banished your young friend from the room," said Markham, after a short pause.  
  "But I will speedily summon her hither again," answered Ellen; "for she also has something
      important to reveal to you."  
  "A continuation, doubtless, of the narrative of the mysterious proceedings of the vilest of
      men and his female accomplice, and concerning which you wrote me full details some weeks ago?"
      observed Richard.  
  "Yes—there is another chapter in that strange history for you to hear," replied Ellen.  
  She then hurried from the room, and in a short time returned with Katherine.  
  "Tell Richard the remainder of your story in your own way, dear Kate," said Ellen, as the
      young ladies seated themselves side by side upon the sofa.  
  side, and walked through the fields. I was thinking of various matters,—but
      chiefly of the cruel disappointment which I had experienced in my recently awakened hopes of
      obtaining information relative to my parentage,—when I suddenly observed a person approaching;
      and I was somewhat alarmed when I perceived that it was that odious Mr. Banks, the undertaker,
      whom Ellen mentioned to you in the letter which related all that had taken place at the farm.
      I was about to retrace my steps, when Mr. Banks called after me, assuring me that I had no
      reason to be afraid of him, and declaring that he had important news to communicate. My hopes
      were revived—I felt convinced that his business was to renew those negotiations between myself
      and the old woman which had been so suddenly interrupted; and I no longer experienced any
      alarm. He accosted me, and, in his peculiar phraseology—an imitation of which I shall not
      inflict upon you—declared that a friend of his possessed certain papers which would entirely
      clear up the mystery wherein my parentage was involved. You may conceive the emotions which
      this communication excited within me: I trembled to put implicit faith in what I heard—in case
      of disappointment—in case of deception; and yet I clung—oh! I clung to the hope of at length
      being enlightened in matters so dear to my heart. Mr. Banks spoke candidly and
      intelligibly—though with wearisome circumlocution and a mass of hypocritical cant. He said
      that his friend had purchased the papers of the old woman for a large sum; and that he would
      only part with them for a larger sum still. In a word, he demanded five hundred pounds; and he
      assured me that I should not regret the bargain—for there were letters in my poor mother's own
      handwriting."  
  Kate wiped away the tears that had started into her eyes as she thus alluded to her maternal
      parent.  
  "I represented to Mr. Banks," she continued, after a pause, "that I was unpossessed of the
      immediate command of the sum demanded, and that I must either apply to the solicitor who had
      the management of my affairs, or wait until your return, Richard, from Italy. I moreover
      explained to him the extreme improbability that either Mr. Wharton or yourself would permit me
      to pay so large an amount for the papers, unless they were previously ascertained to be of the
      value represented. He seemed prepared for this objection; for he immediately declared that if
      I would name a day and an hour when I would call upon him, accompanied by any one friend, male
      or female, whom I might choose to select, he would have the papers in readiness, and that I
      might glance over them in order to satisfy myself of their value and authenticity."  
  "That was certainly a fair proposal for such a gang of villains to make," observed Richard;
      "and it invests the entire affair with the utmost importance. Did you give the man any
      definite answer?"  
  "I assured him that I could do nothing without consulting my friends; but that I would write
      to him in the course of a day or two. He advised me to lose no time; as his friend was not a
      person to be trifled with."  
  "And that friend," said Markham, "is the villain Anthony Tidkins—beyond all doubt. He does
      not dare appear actively himself in this business, for fear of affording me a clue to his
      haunts; and therefore he employs this Banks as his agent. The whole scheme is as transparent
      as possible."  
  "Before I parted from the undertaker," observed Katherine, "I objected to visit his house,
      and proposed to him that, in the event of my friends permitting me to purchase the papers, he
      should allow the cursory inspection of them either at Mr. Wharton's office or at Markham
      Place. But to this arrangement he expressed his entire hostility, stating emphatically that
      the documents must be examined and the purchase-money paid at his own house—and that, too,
      with four-and twenty-hours' notice of the time which I should appoint for the purpose."  
  "I see through it all!" exclaimed Richard. "Tidkins is afraid to trust his own agent with
      the papers or with the money paid for their purchase; and he will be concealed somewhere in
      Banks's house when the appointment takes place. Hence the notice required. It is as clear as
      the noon-day sun."  
  "On my return to the Place," continued Katherine, "I acquainted Mr. Monroe and Ellen with
      the particulars of the interview between the undertaker and myself; and as your letter,
      announcing the day when you hoped to set foot on the English soil again, had arrived that very
      morning, it was arranged that no decisive step should be taken until you were present to
      advise and to sanction the course to be adopted. I accordingly wrote a note to Mr. Banks,
      stating that I would communicate with him in a positive manner in the course of a week or ten
      days."  
  "You acted wisely, dear Kate," said Richard; "and I now question whether the Resurrection
      Man has not allowed his suspicious avarice to get the better of his prudence. But of that we
      will speak on a future occasion. You shall purchase the documents, Katherine—and without
      troubling Mr. Wharton upon the subject. Thanks to the liberality of the Castelcicalan
      government, my fortune is now far more ample than that which I lost; and pecuniary vexations
      can never again militate against my happiness. Yes, Katherine, we will yield to the extortion
      of these villains who are trading in the dearest ties and holiest sympathies of the human
      heart; but I must tax your patience somewhat—for you can well understand that for a few days I
      shall be unable to devote myself to even an affair so important as this. To-morrow you can
      write to Mr. Banks, and fix an appointment at his own house—one week hence—the hour to be
      eight o'clock in the evening, for it is then dark."  
  Katherine expressed her gratitude to our hero for this additional proof of his kindness
      towards her.  
  The happy party remained in conversation until a late hour—unconscious of the rapid lapse of
      time, so deeply were they interested in the various topics of their discourse.  
  It was, indeed, nearly two o'clock in the morning when the last light was extinguished in
      Markham Place.  
  Nevertheless, the inmates of that happy dwelling rose at an early hour—for there was much to
      be done that day, and little time for the purpose.  
  and selection, the business-habits of Mr. Monroe and the good taste of his
      daughter enabled them to accomplish their task in a manner satisfactory to all concerned.
      Thus, in the afternoon, waggons piled with new and costly furniture, carts laden with
      chinaware and glass, and others containing carpets, curtains, and handsome hangings for the
      windows, were on their way to Markham Place.  
  And at the mansion, in the meantime, all was bustle and activity. Richard had departed early
      in the Grand-Duke's carriage for Richmond; but Katherine superintended all the domestic
      arrangements; Marian obtained the assistance of two or three char-women in her special
      department; and Whittingham forthwith added to the establishment, upon his own responsibility,
      two footmen and a page, all of whom were well known to him and happened to have been out of
      place at the moment.  
  Thus, by the time the young Prince returned home to dinner at five o'clock, the old mansion
      exhibited an appearance so changed, but withal so gay and tastefully handsome, that he was
      unsparing in his praises of those who had exhibited so much zeal in rendering it fit to
      receive his bride on the following day.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXIII.   THE MARRIAGE.  
  The happy morning dawned.  
  The weather was mild and beautiful; the sky was of a cloudless azure; and all nature seemed
      to smile with the gladness of an early spring.  
  Markham rose at seven o'clock, and dressed himself in plain clothes; but upon his breast he
      wore the star which denoted his princely rank.  
  And never had he appeared so handsome;—no—not even when, with the flash of his first triumph
      upon his cheeks, he had entered the town of Estella and received the congratulations of the
      inhabitants.  
  When he descended to the breakfast-room, he found Mr. Monroe, Ellen, and Katherine already
      assembled: they too were attired in a manner which showed that they were not to be omitted
      from the bridal party.  
  At eight o'clock the Grand-Duke's carriage drove up to the door; and in a few minutes our
      hero and his friends were on their way to Richmond.  
  "Strange!" thought Ellen to herself; "that I should have passed my honeymoon of twenty-four
      hours with   him   in the same neighbourhood whither Richard is now repairing to fetch
      his bride."  
  The carriage rolled rapidly along; and as the clock struck nine it dashed up the avenue to
      the door of the now royal dwelling.  
  Richard and his companions were ushered into the drawing-room, where the Grand-Duke and the
      Duchess, with the   aides-de-camp  , and a few select guests, were awaiting
      their arrival. The reception which Mr. Monroe, Ellen, and Katherine experienced at the hands
      of the royal pair was of a most cordial kind, and proved how favourably our hero had spoken of
      them.  
  In a short time Isabella made her appearance, attended by her bridemaids—the two daughters
      of an English peer.  
  Richard hastened to present his friends to the Princess; and the cordiality of the parents
      underwent no contrast on the part of the daughter;—but if she were more courteous—nay, kind—in
      her manner to either, that preference was shown towards Ellen.  
  And it struck the young lady that such slight preference was evinced towards her; for she
      turned a quick but rapid glance of profound gratitude upon Richard, as much as to say, "'Tis
      you whom I must thank for this!"  
  How lovely did Isabella seem—robed in virgin white, and her cheeks suffused with blushes!
      There was a charm of ineffable sweetness—a halo of innocence about her, which fascinated the
      beholder even more than the splendour of her beauty. As she cast down her eyes, and the long
      slightly-curling black fringes reposed upon her cheeks, there was an air of purest chastity in
      her appearance which showed how nearly allied her heart was to the guilelessness of angels.
      And then her loveliness of person—Oh! that was of a nature so ravishing, so enchanting, as to
      inspire something more than mere admiration—something nearer resembling a worship. Poets have
      compared eyes to stars—teeth to ivory—lips to coral—bosoms to snow;—they have likened symmetry
      of form to that of sylphs, and lightness of step to that of fairies;—but poor, poor indeed are
      all similitudes which we might call to our aid to convey an idea of the beauty of this
      charming Italian maiden, now arrayed in her bridal vestment!  
  The ceremony was twofold, Richard being a Protestant and Isabella a Roman Catholic. A
      clergyman of the Church of England therefore united them, in the first instance, by special
      licence, at the Grand-Duke's mansion. The bridal party immediately afterwards entered the
      carriages, which were in readiness, and repaired to the Roman Catholic chapel at Hammersmith,
      where the hands of the young couple were joined anew according to the ritual of that
      creed.  
  And now the most exalted of Richard's earthly hopes were attained;—the only means by which
      his happiness could be ensured, and a veil drawn over the sorrows of the past, were
      accomplished. When he looked back to the period of his first acquaintance with
      Isabella,—remembered how ridiculously insignificant was once the chance that his love for her
      would ever terminate in aught save disappointment,—and then followed up all the incidents
      which had gradually smoothed down the difficulties that arose in his path until the happy
      moment when he knelt by her side at the altar of God,—he was lost in astonishment at the
      inscrutable ways of that Providence which had thus brought to a successful issue an aspiration
      that at first wore the appearance of a wild and delusive dream!  
  On the return of the bridal party to the mansion near Richmond, a splendid banquet was
      served up; and if there were a sentiment of melancholy which stole upon the happiness of any
      present, it was on the part of Isabella and her parents at the idea of separation.  
  At length the   déjeuner   is over; and Isabella retires with her mother and
      bridemaids to prepare for her departure. The Grand-Duke takes that opportunity to thrust a
      sealed packet into our hero's hand. A few minutes elapse—Isabella returns—the farewells take
      place—and the bridegroom conducts his charming bride to the carriage. Mr. Monroe, Ellen, and
      Katherine follow in a second chariot.  
  It was four o'clock in the afternoon when Richard assisted his lovely young wife
      to alight at the door of his own mansion; and now Markham Place becomes the residence of the
      Prince and Princess of Montoni.  
  Vain were it to attempt to describe the delight of the old butler when he beheld his master
      bring home that beauteous, blushing bride; and—as he said in the course of the day to Mr.
      Monroe, "It was only, sir, a doo sense of that comportance which belongs to a man in my
      situation of authority over the servants that perwented me from collapsing into some of them
      antics that I indulged in when we heerd of Master—I mean of his Highness's successes in Castle
      Chichory, and when he came home the day before yesterday. But I won't do it, sir—I won't do
      it; although I don't promise, Mr. Monroe," he added, in a mysterious whisper, "that I shan't
      go to bed rayther jolly to-night with champagne."  
  It was eleven o'clock that night when Ellen cautiously issued from the back door of the
      mansion.  
  She passed rapidly through the garden, passed out of the gate, and hastily ascended the hill
      on whose summit were the two trees.  
  A man was seated on the bench.  
  Ellen approached him, threw her arms round his neck, and embraced him with a tenderness that
      even appeared to surprise him by its warmth.  
  She placed herself by his side; he drew her towards him—and kissed her almost
      affectionately.  
  "You are not happy?" said Ellen, in a plaintive and anxious tone. "I knew   that   by
      the contents of the note which Marian gave me just now; and your manner confirms me in the
      opinion."  
  "I know not how it is," replied Greenwood, without answering her question in a direct way,
      "but you never seemed dear to me, Ellen, until this evening."  
  "And am I dear to you now?" she asked, in a tone tremulous with joy.  
  "You are—you are," exclaimed Greenwood, speaking nevertheless in a manner which seemed to
      indicate that he was giving way to a feeling of weakness which he could not conquer, but of
      which he was ashamed; "you are dear to me—for my heart appears as if it required something to
      love, and some one to love me."  
  "And do I not love you?" cried Ellen, pressing her lips to his. "Oh! there was a time when I
      never thought I could love you—when I only sought you as a husband because you were the father
      of my child:—but since we have been united in holy bonds, I have learnt to love you—and I
         do   love you—I   do   love you—in spite of all that has passed!"  
  "You are a good girl, Ellen," said Greenwood, upon whose lash a tear stood: but he hastily
      dashed it away, exclaiming, "This is unlike me! What can be the cause of these
      emotions—hitherto unknown? Is it that I am envious of   his   happiness? Is it that I
      pine for that sweet domesticity which he will now enjoy? Or is it that I am wearied of a world
      false and hollow-hearted?"  
  "Alas!" cried Ellen, the tears streaming from her eyes: "is the world really false and
      hollow-hearted? or have you sought only that sphere which wears the appearance that you
      deplore? Look yonder," she continued, pointing towards the mansion; "no falsehood—no
      hollow-heartedness are there! And why? Because he who rules in that abode has encouraged every
      sweet sympathy that renders life agreeable—every amenity which inspires confidence and mutual
      reliance between a number of persons dwelling together. The sphere that he has chosen is
      purified by his own virtues: the light of his excellence is reflected from the hearts of all
      around him. All are good, or strive to be good in his circle—because he himself is good. Where
      you have moved—ever agitating amidst the selfish crowd, as in troubled waters—none are good,
      because no one sets a good example. Every thing in   your   world is SELF: in Richard's
      world   he   sacrifices SELF unto others. Hence   his   prosperity—  his  
      happiness——"  
  "And hence my adversity—my dissatisfied spirit!" exclaimed Greenwood, impatiently. "But talk
      not thus, Ellen, any more: you will drive me mad!"  
  "Oh! my dear husband, what makes you thus?" cried Ellen, in alarm: "I never saw you so
      before. You who were ever so cool—nay, pardon me, if I say so chilling,—so calculating—so
      inaccessible to the tenderest emotions,—you are now an altered being! But God grant that your
      heart is touched at last, and that you will abandon those paths of selfishness which, as you
      have by this time learnt, are not those of permanent prosperity! Do not be offended with
      me:—heaven knows I would not wound your heart; for I love you ten thousand times better
      to-night than ever I did before—and solely because you   are   changed, or appear to be.
      Oh! let me implore you to cast aside your assumed name—to throw off all disguise—to return to
      that home where the arms of sincerest affection will be extended to welcome you——"  
  "No—no, Ellen!" cried Greenwood, almost furiously: "my pride will not permit me to do that!
      Speak no more in this way—or I will quit you immediately. I will fulfil my destiny—whatever it
      may be. Not a day—not an hour before the appointed time must   he   and I meet! No—broken
      though my fortunes be, they are not irreparable. Had it not been for the flight of that
      villain Tomlinson, I should have retrieved them ere now. I must not, however, despair: my
      credit is still good in certain quarters; and I possess talents for finance and speculation of
      no mean order."  
  "But you will not again embark in any such desperate venture as—as——"  
  "As the forged bills, you would say, Ellen," added Greenwood, hastily. "No:—be not alarmed
      on this head. I will not sully that name which   he   has rendered great."  
  "Oh! do you not remember," cried Ellen, as a sudden reminiscence shot through her brain,
      "that on the morning when our hands were united, you promised   that the name which you then
       gave me should go down to posterity  ?"  
  "It will—it will: the prediction is already fulfilled, Ellen," said Greenwood, hastily;—"but
      not by me!" he added mournfully. "I know not why I feel so low spirited to-night; and yet your
      presence consoles me! Richard now clasps his lovely bride in his arms—and we are forced to
      snatch this stolen interview, as if we had no right to each other's society!"  
  "And whose fault is that?" asked Ellen, somewhat reproachfully. "Is it not in your power to
      put an end to all this mystery?"  
  with renewed impetuosity. "No—let us not touch upon the topic again. My resolves
      are immoveable on that point. If you love me, urge me not to inflict so deep a wound upon my
      pride. This lowness of spirits will soon pass away: I am afraid that envy—or jealousy,
      rather—has in some degree depressed me. And yet envy is not the term—nor does jealousy express
      the true nature, of my sentiments. For, in spite of all my faults, I have loved   him  ,
      Ellen—as you well know. But it is that I feel disappointed—almost disgusted:—I have as yet
      toiled for naught! I contrast my position with   his  —and that makes me mournful. Still
      I am proud of him, Ellen:—I cannot be otherwise."  
  "That is a generous feeling," said Ellen, again embracing her husband: "it does me good to
      hear you express such a sentiment."  
  "I scarcely know what I have been saying," continued Greenwood: "my mind is chaotic—my ideas
      are confused. Let us now separate; we will meet again shortly—and I will tell you of my
      progress towards the fortune which I am resolved to acquire."  
  "Yes—let us meet again soon," said Ellen; "but not here," she added, glancing towards the
      trees. "It makes you melancholy."  
  "Well—well: I will find another spot for our interviews. Farewell, Ellen—dearest Ellen."  
  "Farewell, my dearest husband."  
  They embraced, and separated—Ellen retracing her steps towards the mansion, and Greenwood
      remaining on the hill.  
  On the following morning, after breakfast, Richard conducted his lovely bride over the
      grounds belonging to the Place; and when they had inspected the gardens, he said, "I will now
      lead you to the hill-top, beloved Isabella, where you will behold those memorials of affection
      between my brother and myself, which mark the spot where I hope again to meet him."  
  They ascended the eminence: they stood between the two trees.  
  But scarcely had Richard cast a glance towards the one planted by the hand of Eugene, when
      he started, and dropped Isabella's arm.  
  She threw a look of intense alarm on his countenance; but her fears were immediately
      succeeded by delight when she beheld the unfeigned joy that was depicted on his features.  
  "Eugene is alive! He has been hither again—he has revisited this spot!" exclaimed Richard.
      "See, Isabella—he has left that indication of his presence."  
  The Princess now observed the inscriptions upon the tree.  
  They stood thus:—  
  
   Eugene.  
   Dec. 25, 1836.  
   Eugene.  
   May 17th, 1838.  
   Eugene.  
   March 6, 1841.    
  "Eugene was here yesterday," said Richard. "Oh! he still thinks of me—he remembers that he
      has a brother. Doubtless he has heard of my happiness—my prosperity: perhaps he even learnt
      that yesterday blest me with your hand, dearest Isabel; and that inscription is a
      congratulation—a token of his kind wish alike to you and to me."  
  Isabella partook of her husband's joy; and after lingering for some time upon the spot, they
      retraced their steps to the mansion.  
  The carriage was already at the door: they entered it; and Richard commanded the coachman to
      drive to Woolwich.  
  On their arrival at the wharf where Richard had landed only two days previously, they found
      a barge waiting to convey them on board the Castelcicalan steamer.  
  The Grand-Duke and Grand-Duchess, with their suite, received them upon the deck of the
      vessel.  
  The hour of separation had come: Alberto and his illustrious spouse were about to return to
      their native land to ascend a throne.  
  The Grand-Duke drew Richard aside, and said, "My dear son, you remember your promise to
      repair to Montoni so soon as the time of appointment with your brother shall have passed."  
  "I shall only be too happy to return, with my beloved Isabella, to your society," answered
      Markham. "My brother will keep his appointment; for yesterday he revisited the spot where that
      meeting is to take place, and inscribed his name upon the tree that he planted."  
  "That is another source of happiness for you, Richard," said the Grand-Duke; "and well do
      you deserve all the felicity which this world can give."  
  "Your Serene Highness has done all that is in mortal power to ensure that felicity,"
      exclaimed Markham. "You have elevated me to a rank only one degree inferior to your own;—you
      have bestowed upon me an inestimable treasure in the person of your daughter;—and you
      yesterday placed in my hands a decree appointing me an annual income of twenty thousand pounds
      from the ducal treasury. Your Serene Highness has been too liberal:—a fourth part will be more
      than sufficient for all our wants. Moreover, from certain hints which Signor Viviani dropped
      when I was an inmate of his house at Pinalla—and subsequently, after his arrival at Montoni to
      take the post of Minister of Finance which I conferred upon him, and which appointment has met
      the approval of your Serene Highness—I am justified in believing that in July, 1843, I shall
      inherit a considerable fortune from our lamented friend Thomas Armstrong."  
  "The larger your resources, Richard, the wider will be the sphere of your benevolence," said
      the Grand-Duke; then, by way of cutting short our hero's remonstrances in respect to the
      annual revenue, his Serene Highness exclaimed, "But time presses: we must now say
      farewell."  
  We shall not dwell upon the parting scene. Suffice it to say that the grief of the daughter
      in separating from her parents was attempered by the conviction that she remained behind with
      an affectionate and well-beloved husband; and the parents sorrowed the less at losing their
      daughter, because they knew full well that she was united to one possessed of every
      qualification to ensure her felicity.  
  And now the anchor was weighed; the steam hissed through the waste-valves as if impatient of
      delay; and the young couple descended the ship's side into the barge.  
  the steamer began to revolve on their axis, ploughing up the deep water.  
  The cannon of the arsenal thundered forth a parting salute in honour of the sovereign and
      his illustrious spouse who were returning to their native land from a long exile.  
  The ship returned the compliment with its artillery, as it now sped rapidly along.  
  And the last waving of the Grand-Duchess's handkerchief, and the last farewell gesture on
      the part of the Grand-Duke met the eyes of Isabella and Richard during an interval when the
      wind had swept away the smoke of the cannon.  
  The Prince and Princess of Montoni landed at the wharf, re-entered their carriage, and were
      soon on their way back to Markham Place.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXIV.   MR. BANKS'S HOUSE IN GLOBE LANE.  
  The evening appointed by Katherine, in her note to Mr. Banks, for the purchase of the papers
      relating to her birth, had now arrived.  
  It was nearly eight o'clock.  
  The undertaker was at work in his shop, the door of which stood open; and several idle
      vagabonds were standing near the entrance, watching the progress that was made in bringing a
      new coffin to completion. Somehow or another, people always do stop at the doors of
      undertakers' workshops—doubtless actuated by feelings of the same morbid nature as those which
      call crowds of faces to the windows in a street along which a funeral is passing.  
  Mr. Banks had laid aside his coat, and appeared in his dingy shirt sleeves: he wore a paper
      cap upon his head; and a long apron was tied very high up above his waist—reaching, indeed,
      almost to the waistcoat pockets. As the gas was not laid on in his establishment, he was
      working by the light of a couple of tallow candles, that flickered in a most tantalising
      manner with the draught from the open door—leaving Mr. Banks every other minute in a state of
      exciting suspense as to whether they were about to be extinguished or to revive again. Still
      he did not choose to adopt the very natural precaution of closing the shop-door, because he
      considered it business-like to have a group of idlers collected at the entrance.  
  And there   was   an air of business about Mr. Banks's establishment. There were
      shining white coffin-plates hanging along one row of panes in the window; and black japanned
      ones suspended along another row. At a central pane hung a miniature coffin-lid, covered with
      black cloth, and studded with nails in the usual manner. The shop itself was crowded with
      coffins, in different stages towards completion: the floor was ankle deep in shavings and
      sawdust; and carpenters' tools of all kinds lay scattered about. But, pre-eminently
      conspicuous amongst all those objects, was a glass-case standing upon a little shelf, and
      enclosing that very miniature model of the patent coffin which he had displayed at the
      farm-house near Hounslow.  
  Mr. Banks was busily employed in fitting a lid to a coffin which stood upon trestles in the
      middle of the shop; and his two eldest boys, one fifteen and the other thirteen, were
      occupied, the first in planing a board, and the second in sawing a plank.  
  "Well," mused Mr. Banks to himself, as he proceeded with his work, "I hope Miss Kate won't
      fail to keep her appintment—partickler as Tidkins seems so sure of the job. That other feller
      which came yesterday to look at my first floor front as is to let, never returned. And yet he
      appeared to like the blessed place well enow. Goodness knows he asked questions by the dozen,
      and looked in every cranny about the house. What did he want to bother his-self like that as
      to whether there was a good yard for his missus to hang her clothes in on washing days? He
      should have sent her to see all about that. Then he would see where the yard-wall looked—and
      whether there was a yard or a street t' other side—and all about it. I raly thought he would
      have taken the rooms. But p'rhaps he didn't like the coffins: p'rhaps his missus don't fancy
      that there constant hammering. Ah! it's a sinful world!"  
  And, as if deeply impressed by this conviction, the undertaker shook his head solemnly.  
  He then continued his employment for some time without musing upon any one topic in
      particular.  
  At length he broke silence altogether.  
  "Now, Ned," said he to his eldest-born (he had five or six smaller specimens of the Banks'
      breed indoors), as he raised his head from his work, and looked severely round towards the
      lad; "that's quite planing enow: the board'll be veared as thin as a egg-case before it's
      used. Make it on economic principles, boy—economic principles, I say, mind!" added Mr. Banks,
      sternly.  
  "It ain't economic principles to turn out coffins as rough as if they didn't know what
      planing is," returned the youth; "'cause the friends of the defuncks'll only send them back
      again."  
  "The friends of the defuncts will do no such a thing to a 'spectable furnisher of funerals
      like me, as has lived, man and boy, in the same house for fifty year, and paid his way
      reglar," responded Mr. Banks. "If we adopts economic principles, we can't waste wood or time
      either."  
  "And do you mean to say, father," cried the boy, "that this here plank is planed enow? Pass
      your hand along it, and it'll get kivered with splinters—stuck all over like a porkipine."  
  "It will do exceeding well for the blessed carkiss that'll rejice in such a lid as that
      board will help to make him," said Banks, sweeping his horny palm over the plank. "That's good
      enow—that's economic principles."  
  "Then economic principles is a fool and a humbug," returned the lad, sulkily: "that's all I
      can say about the matter."  
  "Oh! that's it—is it?" cried Banks, assuming a threatening attitude.  
  "Yes—with a wengeance," added his son.  
  "No—that's the wengeance," said Mr. Banks, coolly, as he dealt his heir a tremendous box on
      the ear, which forced the young man nearly over the plank that had caused the dispute; but as
      the lad was not quite floored, his father bestowed on him a kick which, speedily succeeding
      the slap, levelled the youthful coffin-maker altogether.  
  "Brayvo!" shouted the idlers at the door.  
  a gentleman and lady suddenly appeared on the threshold of the shop.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Ah! Miss Wilmot," exclaimed Mr. Banks: "punctual to the time! Your most obedient, sir," he
      added, turning towards Kate's companion, whom he did not know personally, but who was really
      Richard Markham. "Walk in, Miss—walk in, sir."  
  Then, without farther ceremony, the undertaker banged the door violently in the faces of the
      loungers at the shop-entrance.  
  "Please to come this way," he said, again turning to his visitors. "Take care of that lid,
      Miss; it'll soon cover a blessed defunct as a widder and seven small childern is now a-weeping
      for. I'm doing it cheap for 'em, poor things—eighteen-pence under the reg'lar charge, 'cause
      they had to sell their bed to pay for it—in adwance. This way, sir: mind them trestles. Ah! a
      many coffins has stood on 'em—all made on the newest and most economic principles; for my
      maxim is that a cheap and good undertaker is a real blessin' to society—a perfect god-send in
      this world of wanity and wexation. What would the poor sinful wessels in this neighbourhood do
      without me?—what indeed?"  
  Thus talking, and shaking his head in a most solemn manner, Mr. Banks led the way to a
      parlour behind the shop: and when his two visitors had entered it, he closed the door to
      prevent the intrusion of his sons.  
  "Pray, sit down, Miss—sit down, sir," said the undertaker, doing the honours of his abode
      with all the politeness of which he was master. "I am truly glad to behold your blessed
      countenance again, Miss;—for it's a sinful world, and blessed countenances is scarce—wery
      scarce. And this gentleman is Mr.—Mr.—ahem!—I haven't the pleasure of knowing him."  
  "It's no matter who I am," said Richard. "The agreement between Miss Wilmot and yourself was
      that she should visit you, accompanied by a friend:—I am that friend. Let us now proceed to
      business."  
  And as he spoke, our hero coolly produced a brace of pistols, which he laid upon the
      table.  
  "Sir—Miss Kate—I—I hope——" stammered the undertaker, turning pale, and recoiling in
      alarm.  
  are in a strange neighbourhood:—I have about me a considerable sum of money, for
      the purpose of buying certain papers which you profess to have; and you will pardon me if I
      have thought fit to adopt every precaution—yes,   every precaution  ," he added
      emphatically, "to guard against treachery."  
  "But surely that dear creetur, Miss Katherine, with her angelic countenance," said Banks,
      "must have told you, sir, that I'm a 'spectable man as was well known to Mr. Smithers, and
      that I should scorn to act dishonourable to any blessed living wessel."  
  "We will not dispute upon the point, sir," returned our hero, in an authoritative tone. "I
      have my reasons for acting with caution. If you intend us no harm—none can befall you. Where
      are these papers?"  
  "The papers, sir? Oh! the papers is safe enow," said Banks, still hesitating; "but them
      pistols——"  
  "Will remain there until the bargain is concluded," added Markham. "Again I say that I mean
      fairly if you do."  
  Thus speaking, he drew forth a pocket-book, and, opening it, displayed to the undertaker's
      eager eyes a number of Bank notes.  
  "Business—it looks like business," murmured Banks; "in spite of them bles——cussed pistols.
      You see, dear pretty Miss—and you, good sir,—that a man moving in such a important speer as
      myself sees so much of the pomps and wanities——"  
  "A truce to these unnecessary observations, Mr. Banks," said Markham, somewhat sternly; "or
      you will compel me to think that you are only talking to gain time—which could not be for any
      proper motive. In one word, then—have you the papers which relate to this young lady's
      parentage?"  
  "I have, sir—I have indeed," returned the undertaker.  
  With these words, he slowly unlocked an old walnut-wood desk, which stood in a recess; and
      thence he took a brown-paper parcel, tied round with coarse string and sealed in several
      places.  
  "This is just as I received the blessed dokiments from my friend," he said, leisurely
      advancing towards the table: then, taking a seat, he handed the parcel to Markham, observing,
      "You may break it open, and satisfy yourself that its contents is geniwine. Two minutes will
      be enow for that—and two minutes is all my friend told me to give for the purpose. I haven't
      read a line of them myself; and I know nothink of what they say;—but my friend is as sharp a
      feller as here and there one; and he assures me they're going dirt cheap—like workus
      coffins."  
  While Banks was thus indulging his garrulity, Markham had opened the parcel by the aid of a
      pair of scissors which lay upon the table; and the first thing which struck him was a letter
      addressed to "  Mr. Markham, Markham Place  ."  
  Katherine, who watched him attentively, without, however, looking at the papers herself,
      observed him start as if with sudden surprise: then he tore open the letter with almost a wild
      precipitation, and glanced rapidly over the contents. As he read, his countenance became
      flushed, and his features expressed mingled joy and astonishment—joy the most fervent,
      astonishment the most profound.  
  "My God!" he exclaimed, throwing down the letter, ere he had fully perused it: "how wondrous
      are thy ways! Katherine, dearest girl—come to my arms—for you are my sister—my own
      sister!"  
  "Your sister, Richard!" murmured the young maiden, as she sank almost fainting upon her
      brother's breast.  
  "Yes—my sister, Kate—my own sister!"—and he embraced her tenderly. "Compose yourself, dear
      girl—compose yourself: this is no place for explanations! But you are not the less my
      sister—and I thank God for it! I have now a natural right to be your protector—and a protector
      as well as an affectionate brother will you ever find me!"  
  "Oh! Richard—this sudden—this unexpected happiness is too much!" exclaimed Katherine,
      weeping through varied but ineffable emotions. "Is it possible that he whom I have known as a
      benefactor is indeed a brother!"  
  "I cannot doubt it—I do not wish to doubt it," returned Markham. "No—I am happy that I have
      found a sister in her whom I already loved as one!"  
  And again he embraced her tenderly.  
  "And I to find a brother in the noblest and best of men!" murmured Katherine: "it appears to
      be a dream—a delicious dream!"  
  "It is a reality," said Richard; "and we shall now all be happier than ever. Oh! what a
      surprise for those at home!"  
  "Then you perceive, my lord, that the dokiments is of some wally," observed Mr. Banks,
      wiping his eyes with the limp ends of his cravat, as if deeply affected by the scene. "I
      knowed they was; and I now begin to think that I have found out your name. I'm sure it's a
      unspeakable honour that a great lord and prince like you has done my poor house by setting
      foot in it—and all amongst the coffins too!"  
  "Let us now conclude this business, sir," exclaimed Richard, with whom the undertaker's
      remarks passed unheeded, so absorbed were his thoughts in the signal discovery which he had
      just made. "These papers are mine; and this pocket-book is yours. You may examine its
      contents."  
  "Oh! I've no doubt they're all right, my lord," said Banks, grasping the treasure now handed
      to him; "but I'll just look over 'em—merely for form's sake. It's more business-like. And nice
      new flimsies they are, too," continued the undertaker, as he scrutinised the notes one by one.
      "Ah! what miserable wessels we should be without money, my lord—in this wicked world;—and what
      would become of us if our friends had no cash to buy us nice coffins when we are blessed
      defunct carkisses? It's awful to think of! Four fifties—two hundreds—and ten tens: that's five
      hundred—sure enow."  
  And Mr. Banks proceeded to lock up the pocket-book, with its valuable contents, in his
      desk.  
  Richard and Katherine rose, as if to depart.  
  "May be, your lordship and this pretty young lady will just wash your mouths out," said Mr.
      Banks, attempting a pleasant smile. "A leetle drop of wine—one glass; and I'll step myself to
      the public-house to fetch it."  
  "Do so," returned Markham, throwing a sovereign upon the table.  
  Katherine looked at her brother in astonishment; but he affected not to perceive the
      impression which his strange conduct had thus created.  
  nobleman; and gathering up the piece of gold, the change out of which he already
      considered as his own perquisite, he hastened to execute the commission;—but not without
      trying the lid of the desk ere he left the room, to convince himself that it was securely
      locked.  
  He passed through the shop, which was empty; and, muttering to himself something about "his
      unnat'ral boys who had gone off to the public without finishing the economic coffins," opened
      the street door and went out.  
  The moment he was gone, Richard seized his pistols, and saying in a hurried tone to
      Katharine, "Remain here, dear sister, for a few moments," hastened from the room by a door
      leading to the inner part of the dwelling.  
  He rushed down a passage, and entered the yard—as if well acquainted with the undertaker's
      premises.  
  The moment he set foot in the yard, he whistled in a peculiar manner.  
  "Damnation!—treachery!" cried a man, darting forward from the corner near the window.  
  "Stand—or I fire!" exclaimed Markham, advancing towards him, and presenting a pistol.  
  "Fool!" said the man; and he threw himself with desperate fury upon our hero.  
  But Richard, maintaining his footing gallantly, closed with his assailant, and threw him to
      the ground, his pistol going off with the shock—without, however, inflicting any injury.  
  And at the same moment three police-officers leapt over the wall, in time to put an end to
      the struggle between Markham and his opponent, the latter of whom they made their prisoner and
      immediately bound with strong cords.  
  "Is your Highness hurt?" asked one of the officers.  
  "No, Benstead," was the reply: "a little bruised, perhaps—but it is nothing. Bring the
      prisoner this way."  
  The whole transaction,—from the moment when Richard left the undertaker's parlour to that
      when he re-entered it, followed by the policemen with the captive,—had not occupied two
      minutes.  
  He found Katherine reclining back in her chair—half fainting and paralysed by terror, so
      deeply had the report of the pistol and the concomitant scuffle in the yard alarmed her.  
  But the moment she heard her brother's voice, she started up, gazed wildly around, and threw
      herself into his arms.  
  "You are not hurt, Richard? Oh! tell me—that pistol!" she exclaimed, terror still depicted
      on her countenance.  
  "No, dear sister—I am not hurt," exclaimed Richard. "Calm yourself. Every thing has resulted
      according to my expectations. Look, Kate—that terrible man is at length in the hands of the
      officers of justice."  
  Katherine turned a rapid glance towards the group on the other side of the room, and beheld
      the sinister and ferocious countenance of the individual whom she had seen in the company of
      the old hag near Bennet's farm.  
  At this moment the door communicating with the shop opened, and Mr. Banks made his
      appearance, carrying a bottle in his hand.  
  He started back in astonishment and alarm when his eyes encountered the police-officers,
      with his friend Anthony Tidkins securely bound in the midst of them.  
  But as his glances wandered from one to another, he suddenly appeared to recollect
      something; and, fixing his eyes on Benstead, he exclaimed, "Ah! now I twig it all. What a
      cussed fool I was not to know a trap even in plain clothes! But I was blind, 'cause I thought
      I'd got a 'spectable man coming as a fust floor lodger. No wonder you poked your nose in every
      hole and corner—'specially the yard. I was a idiot—a ass—a addle-pated old wessel! But p'rhaps
      the gen'lemen will take a glass of wine, since they're here?" added Mr. Banks, with a smirking
      countenance.  
  This semi-pleasantry on his part was only assumed; for his own life had not been so
      immaculate as to preclude the existence of certain fears when he found himself in the
      dangerous vicinity of the police.  
  He was, however, speedily reassured on this head.  
  "Keep your wine, sir," exclaimed Markham, "for those who can enjoy it in your company; and
      consider yourself fortunate that, in becoming the agent of that man,"—pointing with deep
      disgust towards Tidkins,—"you have not committed yourself in any way which at present
      endangers your safety. I see that you glance uneasily at your desk:—you need not fear that I
      shall attempt to deprive you of the sum which you have extorted as the purchase-money for the
      papers now in my possession. No:—although I do not envy you the feelings which could prompt
      you thus to lend yourself to make a market of secrets so sacred as those which the documents
      contain, I cannot question your right thus to act, seeing that the papers were in your
      possession. And were I compelled to pay a thousand times the sum given to obtain them, I
      should consider they were cheaply bought, inasmuch——But   you   cannot understand such
      feelings!" he added, addressing these words to the undertaker, but glancing affectionately
      towards Katherine.  
  "I hope there's no offence, my lord," said Banks, shaking in every limb with vague fears and
      suspicions. "I'm a poor man, which tries to live honestly by   undertaking   on the most
      economic principles; and there isn't a carkiss as goes through my hands that wouldn't sign a
      certifikit in my favour if it could."  
  Richard turned his back contemptuously upon Mr. Banks, and, addressing himself to Benstead,
      asked where he intended to lodge the prisoner for the night.  
  "There isn't a station-house in London that would be safe to put such a desperate feller
      in," was the reply. "He'd get out as sure as my name is Morris Benstead. I shall take him
      direct to Coldbath Fields, where the keeper will be sure to give him accommodation. To-morrow
      your Highness will be so kind as to appear against him at Lambeth Street."  
  Markham promised compliance with this request. A cab was sent for; and the Resurrection Man,
      who had maintained a moody silence, although he never ceased from looking vindictively upon
      our hero, from the moment he was arrested, was now removed in safe custody.  
  The Prince then conducted Katherine to the carriage that was waiting for them in another
      street; and shortly after ten o'clock they reached Markham Place.  
  surprise and joy with which Isabella, Ellen, and Mr. Monroe received the
      intelligence that Katherine was our hero's sister,—his sister without what the world calls the
         stigma   of illegitimacy! Suffice it to say, that the discovery produced the most
      unfeigned pleasure in the breasts of all, and that Kate became the object of the sincerest
      congratulations.  
  Richard then related as succinctly as possible,—for he longed to peruse the precious
      documents in his possession,—the capture of the Resurrection Man and the scheme by which he
      had placed that villain in the hands of the officers of justice.  
  "I felt persuaded," he said, "that Tidkins did not put implicit confidence in Banks, and
      that he intended to watch the negotiation. His avarice engendered suspicions and got the
      better of his prudence. I communicated my views yesterday morning to a faithful officer whom I
      know; and Morris Benstead—the person to whom I allude—visited the undertaker's house on a
      pretence of hiring apartments which were to let. By those means he was enabled to
         reconnoitre   the premises, and adopt measures accordingly. The result has answered my
      anticipations; and that consummate villain, who twice attempted my life, and whose atrocities
      are numerous as the hairs on his head, is at length in custody."  
  "Ah! dearest Richard," said Isabella, "wherefore should you have thus perilled your precious
      life?"  
  "Do not chide me, Isabel," exclaimed the Prince, kissing her tenderly. "I only performed a
      duty that I owed alike to society and to myself. Let us now examine these documents which have
      already made so strange, and yet so welcome a revelation."  
  The members of that happy party drew round the table; and Richard began by reading the
      various letters that accompanied the old woman's narrative. But as those epistles merely
      corroborated the main points of her tale, we shall not quote them.  
  The narrative itself will explain all; and that important document may be found in the
      ensuing chapter.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXV.   THE OLD HAG'S HISTORY.  
  "I must carry my recollection back between seventeen and eighteen years. Not that it
      requires any effort to call to mind the leading facts in this sad history; no—no—they are too
      well impressed upon my memory;—but there are certain details connected with my own position at
      the time which will need the fullest explanation, in order to show how one like me could have
      become the friend of Harriet Wilmot.  
  "At that epoch I kept a boarding-house—a fashionable boarding-house, in a fashionable street
      at the West End. I was not then ugly and withered as I am now: I had the remains of great
      beauty—for I   was   very beautiful when young! I was also of pleasant and agreeable
      manners, and knew well how to do the honours of a table. You will not therefore be surprised
      when I tell you that I was a great favourite with the persons who lodged at my establishment,
      and with the still more numerous visitors. It is true that this establishment was a
      boarding-house; and it was conducted to all outward appearances, in a most respectable manner.
      But it had its interior mysteries as well as many other dwellings in this metropolis. The fact
      is, that I was well known to a large circle of nobles and gentlemen who employed all their
      leisure time in intrigues and amours. Having been gay myself from fifteen to forty, I was
      deeply versed in the various modes of entrapping respectable young persons, and even ladies,
      in the meshes artfully spread to ensure a constant supply of new victims to the lust of those
      men of pleasure. Having changed my name and thrown a veil as it were over the past, I opened
      the boarding-house by means of the funds supplied by my patrons, and soon experienced great
      success. By paying all my tradesmen with the utmost punctuality, I acquired a good character
      in the neighbourhood; for your tradesmen can always make or mar you, their shops being the
      scandal-marts where all reports, favourable or unfavourable, are put into circulation; and as
      they consider that those who pay well   must   necessarily be respectable, regularity on
      that point is certain to ensure their advantageous opinion. Having thus founded the
         respectability   of my establishment, the rest was easy enough. The calculations made
      by myself and patrons were these:—Boarding-houses are usually inhabited by ladies possessing
      incomes which, though derived from sources that are sure, are too small to enable them to set
      up in housekeeping for themselves. Elderly widows with their daughters,—young widows who,
      coming from the country or from abroad, are strangers in London, but who wish to marry again,
      and therefore seek that society which is most easily entered,—friendless orphans who possess
      small annuities,—aunts and their nieces,—grandmothers with their grand-daughters,—these are
      the class of ladies who principally support boarding-houses. Thus there is always a large
      proportion of   young ladies   in those establishments; and out of a dozen there are sure
      to be three or four very good-looking. There can now be no difficulty in understanding the
      motives which induced my patrons to place me at the head of a boarding-house.  
  "I must now record the plan of operations. In all boarding-houses the number of ladies
      preponderates greatly over that of gentlemen. My average was usually about twenty ladies and
      four or five gentlemen. Three times every week we had music and dancing in the evening; and as
      there was a lack of   beaux  , I of course supplied the deficiency by inviting
       '  some highly respectable gentlemen with whom I had the honour to be acquainted  .'
      These were of course my patrons; and when they were at the house they always took care to
      treat me with a proper politeness, as if all they knew of me was highly to my credit and
      honour. They thus became constant visitors, and were enabled to improve their acquaintance
      with any of the young ladies whom they fancied. As they were very attentive also to the
      elderly ladies, and as good wine and negus were never spared upon those occasions, the mammas,
      aunts, and grandmammas were very fond of our evenings' entertainments, and considered the
      gentlemen whom I invited to be '  the most delightful creatures in the world  played badly to enable the said old ladies to win. It was therefore impossible
      that they could have failed to become especial favourites; and of these advantages they
      availed themselves in their designs upon the young ladies.  
  "The lodgers in boarding-houses are always mean and avaricious. The smallness of their
      incomes does not permit them to indulge largely in their natural taste for dress; and yet
      nowhere do females maintain such desperate struggles to appear fine in their apparel. Thus the
      ladies in boarding-houses can easily be persuaded to accept of presents; and of these my
      patrons were by no means sparing. A gold chain was a certain passport to a young lady's
      favour; and a velvet or silk dress would secure the good opinion of the aunt or grandmamma,
      and even of the mamma. Moreover, when one of my patrons appeared particularly attentive to any
      young lady, she concluded of course that his intentions were honourable; and in a very short
      time she became his victim. In a word, my boarding-house, though ostensibly so respectable,
      was nothing more nor less than a brothel conducted with regard to outward decencies, and
      carefully hushing up scandals that occurred within.  
  "I must now proceed to the principal topic of my history. It was, as I said, between
      seventeen and eighteen years ago, that the Marquis of Holmesford, who was one of my best
      patrons, called upon me and said that he had seen a beautiful young woman enter a humble
      lodging-house in a street not far from my own; and he directed me to institute inquiries
      concerning her. I did so; and in due course ascertained that her name was Harriet Wilmot—that
      she lived with her father in poor lodgings—and that they were by no means well off. I managed
      to get acquainted with Harriet, and called upon her. Her father was very ill—dying, indeed, of
      a broken heart, through losses in business. It moreover appeared that he had arrived in London
      only a short time before, and with a small sum of ready money, which he embarked in a little
      speculation that totally failed. They were sorely pressed by penury when I thus sought them
      out; and as I then knew well how to offer assistance in a delicate manner that could give no
      offence, I was looked upon by the poor young woman as an angel sent to minister to the wants
      of her dying father. The Marquis supplied me liberally with the means of thus aiding them; and
      I called regularly every day.  
  "My plan was to instil into Harriet's mind elevated notions of the position which she ought
      to reach through the medium of her personal attractions. I told her of great lords who had
      fallen in love with females in obscure stations, and who had married them; and as I also
      supplied Harriet with clothes, I took good care that they should be of such a nature as was
      calculated to engender ideas of finery. But all my arts failed to corrupt the pure mind of
      Miss Wilmot: she listened to me with respect—never with interest;—she wore the garments that I
      gave her, because she had none others. I saw that it was no use to think of introducing the
      Marquis to her immediately; and such was the passion he had conceived for her, that he did not
      become lukewarm with delay.  
  "In three weeks after I first became acquainted with the Wilmots, the old man died. The
      purse of the Marquis supplied, through my agency, the means of respectable interment; and when
      the first week of mourning was over, I touched gently upon Harriet's situation. She threw
      herself into my arms, called me her benefactress and only friend, and thanked me for my
      kindness towards her deceased father and herself, in such sincere—such ardent—and yet such
      artless terms, that for the first time in my life I experienced a remorse at the treacherous
      part I was playing. Harriet declared that she could not possibly think of being a burden to
      me, and implored me to follow up my goodness towards her by procuring her a menial
      situation—as she was determined to go out to service. I told her I would consider what I could
      do for her; and I went away more than half resolved to gratify her wish and place her beyond
      the reach of the Marquis by obtaining for her a situation through the means of my tradesmen.
      But when I reached my own house, I found the Marquis waiting for me; and he was so liberal
      with his gold, and so useful to me as my best patron, that I did not dare offend him. I
      accordingly hushed my scruples, and communicated to him all that had just occurred. He
      directed me to get Harriet into my house on any terms, and leave the rest to him. I was
      over-persuaded; and the next day I went to Harriet, and said to her 'My dear child, I have
      been thinking of your wish to earn your own living; and I have a proposal to make to you. I
      require a young person to act as my housekeeper: will you take the place? You shall have your
      own room to yourself; and I will make you as comfortable as I can.' The tears of gratitude and
      the tokens of affection towards me, with which that friendless young woman met my offer,
      actually wrung my heart. I wept myself—yes, I wept myself! And I weep now, too, as all those
      memories return to me with overwhelming force.  
  "Harriet Wilmot thus entered my service. But the very same day that she came into my house,
      I was attacked with a sudden and malignant fever, which threw me upon a sick bed. For ten days
      I was insensible to all that was passing around me; and when I awoke from that mental
      darkness, I found Harriet by my bed-side. For ten days and ten nights had she watched near me,
      scarcely snatching a few moments' repose in the arm-chair. She was pale and wan with long
      vigils; but how her beautiful countenance lighted up with the animation of joy, when the
      physician declared that I should recover. And this same physician assured me that I owed my
      life more to the care of the faithful Harriet than to his skill. I was overwhelmed by this
      demonstration of so much gratitude on her part; and I determined to place her beyond the reach
      of danger the moment I was convalescent.  
  his importunities. She indignantly commanded him to leave her: he grew bolder,
      and attempted violence. She escaped from him, and quitted the house. From a lodging which she
      immediately took, she wrote me a letter, detailing the insults she had endured, reiterating
      all her former expressions of gratitude towards me, acquitting me of all blame in the
      transaction, but declaring that, as she supposed I could not prevent the Marquis from visiting
      at the house, she must respectfully but firmly decline remaining in my service. I hastened to
      her, and was not very urgent in my desire that she should return; for I remembered her
      goodness to me when I was ill, and my heart was softened in her favour. By means of one of my
      tradesmen she almost immediately obtained a situation as nursery-maid in a family residing at
      Lower Holloway. I kept this circumstance concealed from the Marquis of Holmesford, to whom I
      declared that I knew not whither she was gone; and it was impossible that he could now blame
      me, as he himself had driven her by his rashness from my house.  
  "I must observe that all these incidents,—from the first moment of my acquaintance with
      Harriet until she thus quitted my house,—occurred within a period of three months.  
  "Harriet was not happy in her new place. She found that her mistress was an ill-tempered
      vixen, and her master a despotic upstart. But an event occurred which entirely changed her
      gloomy prospects, and enabled her to leave her situation without the necessity of seeking for
      another. During her walks with the children whom she had to attend upon, she met with a
      gentleman of middle age, but handsome person and agreeable manners; and some accident, which I
      have forgotten, made them acquainted. From that time they met every day: the gentleman became
      deeply enamoured of her, but never once did he make a dishonourable proposal. She told him
      that she was a poor friendless orphan and he pitied her:—in a short time he learnt to
      appreciate the purity of her mind—and he loved her. He offered her his hand;—but his pride
      imposed a condition. He was wealthy—he was a widower—he had two children; and he probably
      disliked the idea of introducing to the world as his wife one who had been a servant. She was
      unhappy in her place—without friends—without protectors; and she yielded to his solicitations
      for a private union. They were married—married at Norwood, where the register will doubtless
      attest the fact!  
  "This gentleman was Mr. Markham, of Markham Place. I never was in the neighbourhood of that
      mansion until about a year ago; then I saw it for the first time, and I sighed as I thought of
      Harriet Wilmot! For she ought to have become the mistress of the spacious dwelling;—and so she
      doubtless would have become, had not my treachery blighted all her hopes—all her prospects!
      But I must go back to resume the thread of my history in due course.  
  "Mr. Markham took a comfortable lodging for his young bride in a street somewhere near
      Brunswick Square. Precisely ten months after their union Katherine was born; and Mr. Markham
      now seriously thought of acknowledging his wife and child. She had hitherto passed by the name
      of Mrs. Wilmot since the marriage; and the husband regretted that he had not at once boldly
      proclaimed his second matrimonial connexion to the world. All these facts I subsequently
      learnt from Harriet's own lips.  
  "It was about three months after the birth of Katherine that I met Harriet one day in the
      street; and she seemed to me more beautiful than ever. She had written to announce to me that
      she was married, but without saying to whom, nor indicating where she lived. When I thus
      encountered her, holding her babe in her arms, she invited me to her lodgings, for she said,
      'My husband will not be offended with me for communicating all the particulars of my happiness
      to you; since you were the only friend I found in the time of my poverty and, when my poor
      father was on his death-bed. Besides,' she added, with a smile of infinite satisfaction, 'my
      husband is about to acknowledge me as his wife and take me to his own home.' While we were yet
      speaking, the Marquis of Holmesford rode by on horseback; and, as he turned to nod to me, he
      instantly recognised Harriet. She also knew him, and hurrying along with some alarm, entered
      her lodging, which was close by. I followed her: the incident which had disturbed her was soon
      forgotten; and she then told me all the particulars of her first meeting and her subsequent
      marriage with Mr. Markham. And how she doted upon her child! Never did I behold a mother so
      enthusiastic in her tenderness towards the offspring which she loved—and in which she felt
      pride!  
  "I took leave of her, and promised to call soon again. On my return home I was by no means
      disappointed to find the Marquis waiting for me. He said, 'You are acquainted with Harriet's
      abode. How happens it that you have kept it secret from me?'—I assured him that I had only
      just discovered it—'Well, it may be as you assert,' he continued; 'but do not deceive me in
      what I now require at your hands. Harriet looks more lovely than ever; and all my passion for
      her is revived. She must be mine; and to you I look for aid in obtaining for me the
      gratification of my wishes.'—I told him that Harriet was married, and that the child he had
      seen in her arms was her own; but I did not mention the name of her husband.—'I care nothing
      for her marriage or her maternity,' said the Marquis: 'she is charming, and that is all I
      choose to think of. When money and cunning can produce any thing in this city, it is not
      probable that I should entertain ridiculous scruples. The money I possess; and if cunning were
      wealth, you would be the richest woman in England.'—I remember this conversation as well as if
      it only occurred yesterday. Vainly did I represent to his lordship the difficulty of
      accomplishing the design he had in view. I assured him that Harriet's virtue was beyond the
      possibility of corruption: he replied that artifice could not fail to succeed, and that if I
      appeared cold in the cause, he would employ another and less scrupulous agent. I trembled lest
      I should lose his patronage and that of his friends; and I promised to do my best. The Marquis
      left me, saying, 'Within a week I shall expect that you will have matured some scheme that may
      make her mine; and your reward shall be liberal.'  
  but I resolved to cultivate the intimacy of Harriet for nearly a week ere I put
      it into execution. I accordingly contrived to be almost constantly with her for the next five
      days, saving when she expected her husband. Of his coming she was usually made aware by
      letters from him: some of those epistles she read to me, in the ingenuous confidence of her
      pure soul; and well might she rejoice in them—well might she treasure them,—for they were
      replete with tenderness and love. I know not exactly now what it was that prompted me to
      possess myself of some of those letters, in which Mr. Markham spoke of Harriet as his wife and
      the infant Katherine as his own child;—but I most probably thought that my knowledge of that
      secret union and its fruit might be turned to advantage, especially as I saw that a wealthy
      and well-born man was struggling with his pride whether to proclaim to the world his marriage
      with an obscure servant or whether he should continue to keep the affair secret. At all events
      I cannot conceal the fact that I abstracted, during a temporary absence of Harriet from the
      room on one occasion when I called, three of the letters from her desk,—three epistles in
      which Mr. Markham alluded in the most unequivocal terms to his private marriage with Harriet
      and the existence of the fruit of that union. These letters were addressed simply '  Mrs.
       Wilmot  ,' and without the mention of her abode on the envelope; because, as I learnt from
      Harriet, Mr. Markham always sent them by a messenger from a tavern in Lower Holloway—never
      from his own house, nor by any one of his servants; and by omitting the address, no clue could
      be afforded to impertinent curiosity should a letter thus sent happen to be lost.  
  "But to return to the scheme which I had formed for the ruin of Harriet. During the five
      days that we were so constantly together, as I have stated above, I professed the most sincere
      friendship for Harriet; and she declared that the feeling was not only reciprocal, but that on
      her part '  it was founded on the most sincere gratitude for my former kindness  .' And
      grateful she really was. It was her nature to be grateful and good towards any one who was
      good—or seemed good—to her. But she could not even have hated her bitterest enemies, had she
      known any persons who were openly and avowedly her foes. She was all gentleness and
      amiability—all ingenuousness and candour. But why do I thus dwell upon her excellent
      qualities—since the more blameless was she, the less pardonable was I!  
  "When I took leave of her on the fifth evening she said to me, 'Mr. Markham will not be able
      to visit me at all to-morrow: you would afford me pleasure by dining with me and passing a
      long evening.'—The invitation exactly suited my purposes; and I readily accepted it. But on
      the following day, instead of repairing to Harriet's lodging at four o'clock, as promised, I
      went straight to Holmesford House. The Marquis was at home: he awaited my coming—for I had
      communicated my design to him by note on the preceding evening.  
  "Holmesford House has long been notorious for the debaucheries of its lordly owner.
      Separated from his wife, and enjoying an immense fortune, the Marquis has for many years led a
      life which, were he a private individual, would exclude him from society, but which does not
      in the least degree injure him in the elevated sphere wherein he moves. His dwelling is fitted
      up in the most luxurious—the most voluptuous manner, and is provided with all possible means
      to facilitate his designs upon those virtuous females who may be entrapped into his mansion,
      but who will not yield to him save when overcome by violence. And to that extreme measure has
      the Marquis never hesitated to resort;—for who would think, however great her wrongs, of
      appealing to the law against a nobleman so powerful, so wealthy, and so unprincipled as the
      Marquis of Holmesford?  
  "There was one room in Holmesford House which I must particularly describe. It was a
      bed-chamber—small, but furnished in the most sumptuous manner. It had no side windows; but
      there was a sky-light on the roof; and double sets of panes were fixed in the ample wood-work,
      with an interval of perhaps four inches between each pair. Thus no screams—no shrieks could
      penetrate beyond that strangely-contrived window: the double panes deadened every sound which
      transpired in that room. Similar precautions were adopted in respect to the other parts of the
      chamber. The doors were double, and covered with thick baize, so that they fixed tightly in
      their setting. The walls were also double, with a considerable interval between them: there
      was even a false floor half a foot above the proper one; and carpets were spread so thickly
      that not even a footstep echoed in that chamber.  
  "I shall now continue the narrative of my project against Harriet. Immediately upon my
      arrival at Holmesford House, I wrote a note to the intended victim: it was thus
       worded:—'  Come to me, dearest Harriet, without an instant's delay after the receipt of
       this. I am in sad tribulation—at the house of a friend; but I cannot spare a moment to give
       you an idea of the sudden misfortune which has overtaken me. If you ever loved me—and if I
       have the slightest claim upon your kindness—come! The bearer of this note will conduct you to
       the friend's house where I am!  '—Poor Harriet! she naturally conceived that it must be
      some serious event which could prevent me from keeping my engagement with her; and she
      hesitated not to accompany the female servant who delivered the note to her. She took her
      child in her arms: the servant of the Marquis suggested that she should leave the babe in the
      care of Harriet's own domestic; but Harriet would never separate herself from her beloved
      infant! The servant could not offer further remonstrance on this point; and Harriet entered
      the hackney-coach which was waiting to convey her to destruction!  
  at the strangeness of the whole proceeding, mechanically passed the child to the
      servant, and advanced towards the bed, the curtains of which were drawn around. She heard the
      doors close: she looked round—the servant had disappeared with the babe;—and Harriet was now
      alone with the Marquis of Holmesford!  
  "Two hours elapsed! I was awaiting, in a distant part of the mansion, the issue of that foul
      plot. Wine and generous cordials were on the table; and I drank deeply of them to drown the
      sad thoughts which oppressed me. Never had I before experienced—never have I since known such
      terrible emotions! All the particulars of my connexion with Harriet rushed to my mind. I
      remembered how I first beheld her, affectionately tending the dying bed of her father,—how she
      sate day and night by my side, ministering unto me in my malady as if she was my daughter,—how
      I had seen her a happy wife, content with retirement and privacy—content even with being, as
      it were, an unacknowledged wife, so long as she enjoyed her husband's love,—and how she had
      conducted herself as a tender mother, fondling and nursing her innocent little one! I thought
      of all this; and at the same time I was almost distracted with the idea of the infernal
      treachery which had now ensnared her! Years have passed since that foul night; and its memory
      haunts me still. I have made many—many lovely girls victims to the lust of my employers;—but
      none—no, not one—do I regret, save Harriet Markham!  
  "Two hours elapsed, I say; and at length the Marquis of Holmesford made his appearance. He
      was dreadfully frightened: his manner was wild and excited. I could not gather, from the
      expression of his countenance, whether he had triumphed or lost the victory to which he
      aspired over a virtuous and defenceless woman. I interrogated him with a gesture of
      impatience. '  Damnable woman!  ' he exclaimed; '  if there were not such creatures as
       you, there would be less scope for the vices of men like me. Begone! I would not endure
       another such scene—no, not were I offered a sovereign crown!  '—I made some observation;
      but he interrupted me fiercely, and commanded me to depart. I dared not disobey—his manner was
      actually terrific. He appeared as if he had just witnessed some horrible spectre, or had
      perpetrated a dreadful crime. I returned home; and never did I pass such a miserable
      night.  
  "All next day I waited in expectation of hearing from the Marquis; but no communication
      arrived. In the evening I went to Harriet's lodging, and saw the landlady. In answer to my
      inquiries, she said, 'Mrs. Wilmot remained out until a very late hour last night, or rather
      this morning. It was nearly one when she came home with her child. She was in almost a frantic
      state, and talked so wildly and incoherently that I could not comprehend her. I persuaded her
      to retire to her chamber, and offered to sit up with her. She allowed me to conduct her to her
      room, but insisted on remaining alone. Poor thing! I heard her walking up and down the chamber
      until past five; and then all became quiet. I supposed she had retired to bed. When I rose at
      eight, I learnt from the servant that she had gone out with her child half an hour previously.
      She has not been back since; and I feel alarmed at her absence.'—'Some sudden calamity has
      perhaps overtaken her,' I said, terribly frightened at these tidings. 'Have the kindness to
      send your servant to let me know when she returns; but you need not tell her that you do so. I
      have my reasons.' The landlady, believing me to be an intimate friend of Harriet, readily
      promised compliance with my request. I was about to depart, when she suddenly recollected
      something, and said, 'I had nearly forgotten to tell you that about an hour ago, the messenger
      that usually comes from the gentleman who visits Mrs. Wilmot, and who she says is her
      husband—'—'Yes, yes,' cried I impatiently.—'The messenger has left a small packet for her,'
      continued the landlady.—'Let me see it,' I said, thinking that its contents might afford some
      clue to the mystery of Harriet's disappearance: 'I am acquainted with all Mrs. Wilmot's
      affairs, for you know how intimate we are.'—The landlady showed me the packet without the
      least hesitation, and I instantly recognised in the address the handwriting of Mr. Markham. I
      longed to open the parcel, but dared not. So I took my departure, having reiterated my desire
      to be informed of Harriet's return, the moment it might happen.  
  "The next evening came, and I had neither heard from the landlady, nor seen the Marquis. I
      sent a note to the latter; but he had left town on the previous day. A thought struck me:
      could he have persuaded Harriet to accompany him? Had he so far overcome the virtue of that
      pure-minded creature? I thought of the packet from Mr. Markham, and longed to ascertain its
      contents. A strong suspicion lurked in my mind that it was connected with the affair in some
      way or another. I however waited a week; and, hearing no tidings of any kind concerning
      Harriet, went boldly to her lodgings. 'Mrs. Wilmot's disappearance is so strange,' I said to
      the landlady, 'that, having consulted my legal adviser, and acting on the plea of being her
      intimate friend, I am determined to open that packet which was sent for her, and which I think
      must afford some clue to her absence.'—The landlady gave me the packet, saying, 'If you take
      the responsibility on yourself, well and good; but I will have nothing to do with the
      business.'—This was better than I had even expected; and I departed with the parcel.  
  "I was not long in returning to my house, and the moment I had reached my own chamber, I
      tore open the parcel. It contained four letters: but the contents of one will explain the
      presence of the other three. That one was from Mr. Markham, and ran as nearly as I can
      recollect thus: 'After the terrible discovery which I made last night, I can never see you
      more. You have wantonly betrayed the confidence and affection of a man who descended from his
      eminence to court your love in your social obscurity. But the moral bond that united us is
      riven asunder; and the legal one shall be equally broken should you dare to represent yourself
      as my wife. The most horrible suspicion now haunts me that even   your   child may not be
         mine  . Keep that infant, then; and be good to it, if your depraved heart will allow
      you. And that you may not sink into the lowest grades of crime from the embraces of the noble
      libertine to whom you have abandoned yourself, I have instructed my banker to pay to you, as
         Mrs. Wilmot  , a monthly stipend of ten pounds. I have destroyed all your letters,
      save the   three  will place before you in all its glaring flagrancy the contrast between your
      protestations and your deeds.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "This terrible document bore no signature: but it was impossible, either by its nature or
      the handwriting, that it could have emanated from any one save Mr. Markham. The three letters
      accompanying it contained expressions of sincere gratitude and fervent affection towards Mr.
      Markham, and denoted three particular phases in Harriet's connexion with him: namely, her
      assent to their union, the fact that she was in a way to become a mother, and the announcement
      of approaching maternity. I wept as I read them:—I wept as I thought of all I had done in
      accomplishing the ruin of poor Harriet!  
  "The Marquis came no more to my house;—I saw by the newspapers that he had returned to
      London, a few weeks after the sad incidents just described;—again I sought an interview with
      him, but he would neither see nor correspond with me. My other patrons deserted me: they had
      been introduced by the Marquis; and, finding that he had some private reason to shun me, they
      fell off rapidly. I was compelled to break up my establishment: it ruined me in pocket, as it
      had ruined many, many young females in virtue. But for none of my victims did I reck—no, not
      one, save Harriet Markham.  
  "I fell gradually lower and lower in the scale of my avocations; but still I contrived to
      gain a living in various ways which have no connexion with the object of this narrative. It
      was about a year after the sad events above recorded, that I one day met Harriet Wilmot face
      to face in the neighbourhood of Bloomsbury. She was poorly clad and sickly in appearance; and
      her countenance was expressive of profound mental dejection. She held a letter in her hand;
      but she had not her child with her; and she was hurrying rapidly along—most probably to the
      post-office. 'Harriet!' I exclaimed, catching her by the hand.—She started at being thus
      accosted; but the moment her eyes fell on my countenance, she shuddered visibly, and cried
      out, '  You!  '—then she darted away as if in affright, dropping the letter upon the
      pavement. For some moments I was so stupefied by her abrupt flight, that I stood as it were
      paralyzed. But seeing the letter upon the pavement, I recovered the use of my limbs, and
      hastened to pick it up. It was addressed '  To the    Marquis of Holmesford, Holmesford House  .' I hurried away with it, saying
      to myself, 'Now I shall discover how far the connexion between Harriet and the Marquis
      went.'—But I was disappointed: the letter merely contained, as far as I can remember, these
      words:—'I ought not to address your lordship, under the peculiar—the distressing circumstances
      which made us acquainted; but necessity compels me to appeal to your lordship's bounty. It is
      not for myself, however, that I implore your aid; but for the sake of my child, who is
      starving! Oh! my lord, if you only knew what the feelings of a mother are when she beholds her
      infant shrieking for food, and turning its eyes towards her countenance in so piteous a manner
      that they speak the language of famine far more eloquently than its tongue could possibly do,
      were it able to express its wants in words,—if you could understand these feelings, you would
      not think ill of me because I thus appeal to your bounty!'—An address was given in an obscure
      street in Bloomsbury; and the letter was signed '  Harriet Wilmot  .'  
  "Again I felt for that poor creature, who was now reduced, with her poor infant of fifteen
      months old, to such a state of penury; and I do not say it to render myself less despicable
      than I must appear in the eyes of those who may peruse this narrative,—but I merely state it
      as a fact, that I hastened home, gathered together the few shillings which I possessed, and
      hurried off to the address mentioned in Harriet's letter. But when I reached the house
      indicated, I learnt from the landlady that Mrs. Wilmot had suddenly departed half an hour
      before. 'She was very poor,' observed the woman; 'but she was honest. She strove hard to
      maintain herself with her needle, and starved herself to feed her infant. She thought herself
      quite happy when she earned five shillings in a week. Night after night did the poor creature
      sit up till she was nearly blind, toiling constantly at her work. And when she went away so
      suddenly just now, she offered me her shawl in payment of the little arrears of rent due. My
      God! I would sooner have given her all I had than have taken a rag from her! Ah!' added the
      woman, wiping her eyes, 'there's something very wrong somewhere in the country when such good
      mothers are allowed to die by inches through sheer famine!'  
  "I went away, very miserable. I felt convinced that Harriet, when she perceived she had lost
      her letter, suspected that it might fall into my hands, and that I should thereby learn her
      place of abode. And it was clear that she had departed so abruptly to avoid me! I have kept
      that letter—as well as all the others to which I refer in my history.  
  "As nearly as I can recollect, two years and three quarters passed away; and I again saw
      Harriet. It was in the month of January, about noon on a bitter cold day; and I was walking
      through Long Acre, when I suddenly perceived her enter a house, which was evidently let in
      lodgings to poor families. She did not observe me; but I felt a violent longing to make my
      peace, if possible, with that unfortunate victim of my treachery. The door stood open for the
      accommodation of the various inmates; and I hurried up the staircase. I heard footsteps before
      me—and I followed them to the very top of the house: then I caught a glimpse of Harriet
      entering a back garret. I advanced to the door, and knocked gently. Harriet immediately opened
      it; but when she beheld me, she recoiled with such an expression of horror and alarm upon her
      death-like countenance, that I was dreadfully embarrassed. 'My dear friend,' I said, at
      length: 'pray—in the name of heaven! hear me!'—'  You!  ' she cried, in that shrieking
      kind of tone which had marked her utterance of the word when we met before, and which showed
      her utter abhorrence of me—a sentiment I well deserved: 'hear   you  ! Oh! no—no!'—and
      she closed the door violently. I knew not how to act. I felt convinced that she had never
      communicated with Mr. Markham since the period when he made that mysterious but '  terrible
       discovery  ' to which he alluded in his letter that fell into my hands. I thought I would
      acquaint her with the existence of that letter and the nature of its contents; because it
      promised an income which would have placed her above want. So I sate down upon the stairs to
      reflect how I should proceed to induce her to hear me. In a few minutes the door opened
      quickly, and Harriet, with her child (who was then four years old) in her arms and a small
      bundle in her hand, appeared on the landing. She shrank back when she saw me—she evidently
      thought I was gone. Then, recovering herself, she exclaimed, '  Wretch! why do you haunt me?
       Have you not injured me enough already? Will you not even let me die in peace?  '—I
      started up, saying, 'Do hear me! You know not how important——.'—But ere I could utter another
      word, she rushed wildly past me, and ran down the stairs with a precipitation which manifested
      her profound horror at my presence.  
  "Thus had I involuntarily driven her a second time from her humble home! I was sorely
      afflicted, for many reasons—but chiefly because my motives were not on either occasion wrong.
      I was about to take my departure, when I thought I would cast a look at the interior of the
      chamber which she had inhabited. By its appearance I hoped to judge of her circumstances,
      which I sincerely wished might be improved. I entered the room: it was evidently a
      ready-furnished garret. I am able to recognise such facts at a glance. Though not absolutely
      wretched, it was mean—very mean—too mean to permit the idea that she, poor creature! was
      comfortable in her resources. Several papers were burning in the grate: she had evidently set
      fire to them the moment ere she left the room in the precipitate manner described. I hastened
      to extinguish the smouldering flames, but redeemed the fragment of only one important paper.
      It contained the commencement of a letter evidently written that morning, as I discovered by
      the date. Strange to say, it was another epistle addressed '  To the Marquis of Holmesford,
       Holmesford House  duty to reveal it to you, that your lordship may see him and ex——'  
  "The remainder had been so scorched that it was illegible. Conjecture relative to the
      termination of the sentence was vain. Was the unfinished word   explain  ? Or was it
         express  ? Often—often have I sate and wondered what the end of the passage originally
      was, ere the flames singed that sad letter.   She felt the hand of Death already upon
       her  ; and I had driven her from the place where she wished   to die in peace  !
      Wretch—wretch that I was!  
  "From that time forth I never saw her more!  
  "All that I know of Harriet Markham is now told. The only link that is missing in the chain
      of my narrative is the detailed account of the mode in which Mr. Markham discovered that his
      wife had become the victim of the Marquis of Holmesford. That mystery the Marquis himself may
      be enabled to explain.  
  "My task is terminated: nor would I for worlds be compelled to accomplish it over again. It
      has given additional poignancy to thoughts that frequently oppress me, and has aroused others
      equally painful, but which had slumbered for years and years until now. And where I write—I
      dare not name the place, nor even those at whose command I write—there is a fearful gloom that
      is congenial, too congenial with those appalling reminiscences. Perhaps I should have felt and
      expressed less remorse for the past, had I written under more pleasant circumstances; perhaps,
      in that case, many of those dread images which   here   haunt my mind and are reflected
      in the bewailings and self-reproaches which appear in these pages, would not have visited me:
      still, had I performed this task in a cheerful chamber and in the gladdening sun-light,—even
      then I must have felt   some   remorse—for of all the bad deeds of my life, the treachery
      which I perpetrated towards Harriet is the blackest!  
  "May her sweet daughter Katharine be more happy—more fortunate!"  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXVI.   THE MARQUIS OF HOLMESFORD.  
  It was eleven o'clock on the following day, when the Marquis of Holmesford rose from the
      arms of one of the houris who formed his harem.  
  He thrust his feet into a pair of red morocco slippers, put on an elegant dressing-gown of
      gay-coloured silk, and passed from the room of his charmer to his own chamber.  
  There he entered a bath of warm milk; and, while luxuriating in the tepid fluid which
      imparted temporary vigour to a frame enfeebled by age and dissipation, he partook of a bowl of
      the richest French soup, called   consommée  , which his valet presented on a
      massive silver salver.  
  Having finished a broth that was well calculated to replenish the juices of his wasting
      frame, the hoary voluptuary left the bath, which was immediately wheeled into an adjacent
      chamber.  
  Every morning was a certain quantity, consisting of many gallons, of new milk supplied for
      the use of the Marquis of Holmesford; and when it had served him for one bath, it became the
      perquisite of his valet.  
  And what did this domestic do with it? Had he possessed hogs, he would not have given to
      those unclean beasts the fluid which had washed off all the impurities of his master's
      person:—no—he would not have allowed the very pigs to partake of the milk with which the
      disgusting exudations of the old voluptuary's body had commingled!  
  But he contracted with a milk-man whose "walk" was in a very poor neighbourhood; and that
      milk-man paid the valet a certain sum daily for the perquisite.  
  It was then retailed to the poor as the best "country grass-fed milk!"  
  Let us, however, return to the Marquis.  
  Upon quitting his bath, he commenced the mysteries of the toilet,—that ceremony which
      involves so many repulsive details when connected with old men or old women who have recourse
      to cosmetics or succedaneous means to render less apparent the ravages of time and
      debauchery.  
  Taking out his complete set of false teeth, he placed them in a glass filled with pure
      lavender water. His dressing-case supplied a silver instrument to scrape the white fur from a
      tongue that denoted the fever produced by the previous evening's deep potations; a pair of
      silver tweezers removed the hairs from his nostrils; and, in the meantime, his wig, stretched
      upon a block, was skilfully dressed by the valet.  
  It was past mid-day when Lord Holmesford quitted his chamber, looking as well as all the
      artificial means which he adopted towards the improvement of his person, and all the
      accessories of faultless clothes, whitest linen, and richest jewellery, could render an old
      worn-out beau of sixty-four.  
  As he was descending the stairs, a servant met him, and said in a profoundly respectful
      tone, "Mr. Greenwood, my lord, is in the drawing-room."  
  The Marquis nodded his head, as much as to say that he heard the announcement, and proceeded
      to the apartment where the Member for Rottenborough was waiting.  
  "Well, Greenwood, my boy," cried the Marquis, affecting the sparkling hilarity of youth, and
      endeavouring to walk with a jaunty and easy air, just as if his old bones did not move heavily
      in their sockets like a door on rusty hinges; "how goes the world with you? As for me, by God!
      I really think I am growing young again, instead——"  
  "Your lordship   does   look uncommonly well," said Greenwood, who had his own purposes
      to serve by flattering the nobleman; "and for a man of fifty-two——"  
  "Come, Greenwood—that won't do!" cried the Marquis. "Fifty-one, if you please, last
      birth-day."  
  "Yes—I meant in your fifty-second year, my lord," said Greenwood, with admirable composure
      of countenance, although he well knew that the hoary old sinner would never see sixty-four
      again:—"but, as I was observing, you are really an astonishing man; and if I were
      married—egad! I should deem it but prudent to request your lordship not to call at the house
      except when I was at home!"  
  "Ah! you rogue, Greenwood!" exclaimed the Marquis, highly delighted at the compliment thus
      conveyed—for with debauchees in fashionable life such a degrading assertion   is   a
      compliment, and a most welcome one, too:—"no—no—not so bad as that, either, Greenwood.
      Friendship before every thing!"  
  "No, my lord—  love   before every thing with your lordship!" cried
      Greenwood, gravely sustaining the familiar poke in the chest which his former compliment had
      elicited from the old nobleman. "You are really terrible amongst the women; and, some how or
      another, they cannot resist you. By the bye, how gets on the action which Dollabel has against
      you?"  
  "What! Dollabel, the actor at the Haymarket!" ejaculated the Marquis. "Oh! settled—settled
      long ago. My lawyer ferreted out an overdue bill of his, for ninety-odd pounds, bought it up
      for seven guineas, sued him on it, and threw him into some hole of a place in the City, that
      they call Redcross——"  
  "No—Bluecross, I think," suggested Greenwood, doubtingly—although he knew perfectly well to
      what place the Marquis was alluding.  
  "No—no—that isn't it either," cried the nobleman: "Whitecross Street—that's it."  
  "Ah! Whitecross Street—so it is!" exclaimed Greenwood. "What a memory your lordship
      has!"  
  "Yes—improves daily—better than when I was a boy," said the Marquis. "But as I was
      observing, my solicitor threw Dollabel into Whitecross Street gaol, and starved him into a
      compromise. I consented to give him his discharge from the debt and a ten-pound note to see
      his way with when he came out. But his wife was really a nice woman!"  
  "She was—a very nice woman," observed Greenwood. "You got out of that little   crim.
       con.   very nicely. Then there was Maxton's affair——"  
  "What! the tea-dealer in Bond Street!" exclaimed the Marquis, chuckling with delight as his
      exploits in the wars of love were thus recalled to his mind. "Oh! that was not so easily
      settled, my dear fellow. It went up to within a week of trial; and then Maxton agreed to stop
      all further proceedings and take his wife back if she came with a cool two thousand in her
      pocket. Well, my lawyer—knowing fellow, that!—drew him into a correspondence, and got him to
      receive his wife. Home she went:—Maxton met her with open arms—declared before witnesses that
      he was at length convinced of her innocence—(this he said to patch up her reputation)—and all
      was well till next morning, when he asked her to give him the two thousand pounds, that he
      might take them to the Bank. Then she laughed in his face—and he saw that he was done.
         Condonation  , the civilians call it—and so he could not go on with the suit.
      Capital—wasn't it?"  
  "Capital, indeed!" ejaculated Greenwood, nearly dying with laughter.  
  The Marquis never for a moment suspected it to be all forced, but rubbed his hands together
      so briskly and chuckled so heartily, that a violent fit of coughing supervened, and he was
      compelled to turn aside to hold in his false teeth.  
  "Your lordship has caught a little cold," said the Member for Rottenborough. "But it is
      nothing—a mere nothing: I often have a cough like that. I've known many young men—much younger
      than your lordship—have worse coughs."  
  "Oh! I know that it's nothing," cried the Marquis, still stammering with a diabolical
      irritation in the throat.  
  "By the bye," said Greenwood, imagining that he had now so effectually worked himself into
      the old nobleman's good graces that he might safely explain the business that had brought him
      thither; "you are not in any hurry for the ten thousand I borrowed of you at the beginning of
      the year?"  
  "Not in the least, my dear fellow," returned the Marquis. "But, while I think of it, what
      has become of the fair Georgian—the blue-eyed Malkhatoun?"  
  "I handed her over to Dapper some time ago," answered Greenwood. "We were, however, speaking
      of those ten thousand pounds——"  
  "A trifle—a mere trifle. Say no more about it," cried the nobleman.  
  "I expected as much from your lordship's generous friendship," said Greenwood, obsequiously.
      "In fact, I came to tax you for a further loan—just for a few days——"  
  "Impossible at present, my dear fellow!" interrupted the Marquis, rather peremptorily; for
      he had entertained doubts of his friend's prosperity for some time past; and this application
      only tended to confirm his suspicions. "I am really so pressed at this moment——"  
  The dialogue was interrupted by the sudden entrance of a servant, who said, "My lord, the
      Prince of Montoni requests an interview with your lordship."  
  "The Prince—Richard—  here  !" exclaimed Greenwood, thrown off his guard.  
  "Show his Highness up immediately," said the Marquis, in the tone of a man who was surprised
      but not alarmed at this visit.  
  "My lord," interrupted Greenwood, speaking in a hurried and thick tone, "I have the most
      urgent reasons for not meeting the Prince of Montoni—for not even being seen by him. I implore
      you not to say that I am here—not even to allude to me."  
  And having uttered this hasty injunction, Greenwood passed into a back drawing-room, which
      was separated from the front one by folding-doors.  
  But it was easy to overhear in the former apartment all that was said in the latter.  
  Scarcely had the Member for Rottenborough thus retreated, when the Prince was ushered into
      the presence of the Marquis of Holmesford.  
  Those two personages had never met before; and the moment they thus found themselves face to
      face, they surveyed each other with rapid but scrutinising glances.  
  On one side Richard Markham was naturally curious to behold the man,—the monster in human
      form,—who could have practised so much villany against so much virtue—who, in a word, had
      destroyed the happiness of the deceased and lamented mother of Katharine.  
  On the other hand, the Marquis was struck by the handsome and noble appearance of that fine
      young man, who had raised himself from a sphere comparatively humble to an exalted
      position—who had led armies to a crowning triumph through the deadly strife of battle—and who
      was himself the personification of that generous spirit of political freedom which now
      influences the civilised world from the banks of the Thames to the waters of the Volga.  
  thing to his own selfish lusts and degrading debaucheries:—the one endowed with
      that manly beauty which associates so well with the dignity of high rank and the aristocracy
      of virtue; the other sinking beneath the infirmities of age and the ravages of
      dissipation:—the one noble alike by nature and by name; the other noble only by name:—the one
      carrying his head erect, and well able to meet the glance of every eye that would seek to
      penetrate into the recesses of his soul; the other conscious of having outraged so many
      hearts, that he quailed beneath the look of every visitor whose business was not immediately
      announced:—the one, in a word, the type of all that is great, good, chivalrous, and estimable;
      the other a representative of a vicious hereditary aristocracy!  
  The Marquis requested our hero to be seated, and, having himself taken a chair, waited for
      an explanation of the motives of this visit.  
  "I have called upon you, my lord," said Richard, "for the purpose of requesting one
      half-hour's serious conversation on a subject which deeply interests me and an amiable girl
      whom I only yesterday discovered to be my sister. My name is not unknown to your
      lordship——"  
  "I have heard much of your Highness," interrupted the nobleman; "and am well acquainted with
      those great achievements which have covered you with glory."  
  "When I said that my name was not unknown to your lordship," continued Richard, bowing
      coldly in acknowledgment of the compliment thus paid him, "I did not allude to that title by
      which the forms of ceremony compelled me to announce myself: I intended you to understand that
      the name of   Markham   must occupy no agreeable place in your lordship's memory."  
  "Your Highness oversteps the bounds of courtesy in undertaking to answer for the state of my
      feelings," exclaimed the Marquis, with evident signs of astonishment: "your Highness
      insinuates that I have reason for self-reproach; and this between strangers——"  
  "Pardon me for interrupting your lordship," said our hero, calmly but firmly: "if we were
      personally strangers to each other until now, the name of my deceased father was not unknown
      to you; nor am I unacquainted with your conduct towards one who was dear to   him  . And
      now, my lord, let us understand each other. I came not hither on an inimical errand—scarcely
      even to reproach you. You are an old man—and it would be unseemly in me, who am a young man,
      to assume a tone of intimidation or of menace. But I come to request an explanation of a
      certain affair which is to some degree enveloped in doubt and mystery—although, alas! I dread
      the very worst:—I come as one gentleman seeks another, to demand the only atonement that can
      be made for wrongs inflicted years ago on him who was the author of my being;—and that
      atonement is a full avowal of the past, so that no uncertainty even as to the worst may dwell
      in the minds of those who are now interested in the subject to which I allude."  
  "Your Highness is labouring under some extraordinary error," said the Marquis of Holmesford,
      warmly. "I declare most solemnly that the name of your father was totally unknown to me:
      indeed, I never heard of your family until the newspapers first became busy with your own
      exploits in Italy."  
  "Is this possible?" cried Richard: then, as a sudden reminiscence struck him, he said in a
      musing tone, "Yes—it may be so. In her last letter addressed to the Marquis of Holmesford poor
      Harriet intimated that the name of her husband was unknown to him—and that letter was never
      sent!"  
  Although the Prince uttered those words rather in a musing tone to himself than in direct
      address to the Marquis, the latter caught the name of   Harriet  , and instantly became
      deeply agitated.  
  "Harriet, my lord?—did your Highness mention the name of Harriet?" murmured the
      nobleman.  
  "Yes, my lord," continued Richard: "I see that I have hitherto been speaking in enigmas. But
      I will now explain myself better. It is of one whom you knew as Harriet Wilmot that I require
      explanations at your hands."  
  "Harriet Wilmot!—yes—I knew her," said the Marquis, faintly: "I did her grievous wrong! and
      yet——"  
  "Your lordship will understand wherefore I feel interested in all that relates to Harriet
      Wilmot," interrupted Markham,—"when I declare to you that she was secretly married to my own
      father—and it is her child whom I yesterday embraced as a sister!"  
  "As there is a God in heaven, my lord," exclaimed the Marquis of Holmesford, emphatically,
      "I never until this moment knew the name of Harriet's husband; and with equal solemnity would
      I assert on my death-bed that she was innocent, my lord—she was innocent!"  
  "Oh! if I could believe—if I were assured——"  
  Richard could say no more: he pressed his hand to his brow, as if to steady his brain and
      collect his thoughts; and tears trembled on his long black lashes.  
  "Prince of Montoni," cried the Marquis, rising from his seat, and speaking with more
      sincerity and more seriousness than had characterised his tone for many, many years; "I am a
      man of pleasure, I admit—a man of gallantry, I allow; but I have no inclination to gratify, no
      interest to serve, by uttering a falsehood now. Again I declare to you—as God is my judge—that
      Harriet was innocent in respect to myself,—and I believe—nay, I would venture to
      assert—innocent also with regard to others—and faithful to her husband!"  
  "My lord," said Richard, in a voice tremulous with mingled emotions of joy and doubt; and as
      he spoke, he also rose from his seat, and took the nobleman's hand, which he pressed with
      nervous force,—"my lord, prove to me what you have just stated—explain all that took place
      between yourself and Harriet on that night which appears to have been so fatal to her
      happiness,—show me, in a word, that she   was   innocent,—and I will banish from my mind
      all angry feelings which may have been excited by the knowledge of your intrigues to undermine
      her virtue!"  
  "I cannot for a moment, hesitate to satisfy you in this respect," said the Marquis. "Resume
      your seat, my lord—and I will narrate, as calmly and distinctly as I can, all that transpired
      on the night when she was inveigled to my house;—for I perceive that you are well acquainted
      with many details concerning her."  
  of all which she knew relative to that unfortunate young woman. But there is one
      gap which your lordship must fill up—one mystery which is as yet unrevealed. I allude to the
      incidents of that fatal night, when, even if Harriet escaped innocent from this house, she, by
      some strange combination of untoward circumstances, lost the confidence of my father—her
      husband—and appeared guilty in his eyes."  
  "And yet she   was   innocent!" exclaimed the Marquis, emphatically. "Listen, Prince,
      to what I am about to say. The old woman to whom you have alluded, inveigled Harriet to my
      house—and, I confess, by my instructions. I knew that she was married; but the old woman told
      me not to whom—even if she knew."  
  "She   did   know," remarked our hero; "but the marriage was kept secret——"  
  "And I never asked the vile procuress any particulars concerning it," interrupted the
      Marquis. "All I coveted was Harriet's person: I cared nothing for her connexions or
      circumstances. The young mother came hither, with her child in her arms. One of my female
      servants took the babe from her, and locked her in a room where she expected to find the woman
      whom she believed to be her friend. But she was alone with me! She knew me—and the conviction
      that she was betrayed flashed to her mind the moment her eyes met mine. Then she fell upon her
      knees, and implored me to save her—to spare her. I was inflamed with wine—maddened with
      desire; and I heeded not her prayers. I attempted to reason with her;—but not all the tempting
      offers I made her—not all the promises I uttered—not all the inducements I held out, could
      persuade her to submit to my wishes. I was already a widower, and I even swore to make her my
      wife, so soon as a divorce could be obtained between herself and her husband, if she would
      become my mistress. No:—she wept and shrieked—she prayed and menaced—she grew violent and
      imploring, by turns. At length—for I must tell you all—I had recourse to violence: I was no
      longer able to master my passions. But she resisted me with a strength and energy that
      surprised me. I was completely baffled—and Harriet remained innocent!"  
  "Thank God—thank God!" exclaimed Markham, fervently clasping his hands together.  
  "Yes, my lord—she remained innocent," continued the Marquis; "and, when I myself grew more
      cool, I felt ashamed—humiliated—cast down, in the presence of that young woman who had
      preserved her virtue from my violence,—the first who ever entered that room and conquered
         me  ! I suddenly experienced an admiration for her—such as I had never known till then
      on behalf of any female! I approached her—in my turn I became a suppliant;—but it was for
      pardon! I deplored the outrage I had committed—I went upon my knees to ask her
       forgiveness.—'  My child!  ' she suddenly exclaimed, as if awaking from a profound
      reverie.—I rang the bell, and received her child at the door: in my own arms I carried the
      babe to her. She covered it with kisses; and my manner touched her—for she declared that she
      would pardon me, if I never molested her more. I called heaven to witness the sincerity of the
      oath that I then pledged to observe this condition. Two hours had thus elapsed; and when she
      was composed, I rang the bell and ordered a hackney-coach to be fetched. When the vehicle
      arrived, I escorted her to it. But as I handed her down the steps of the front door, a
      gentleman, who was passing at the moment, caught sight of her countenance.—'  Harriet!  '
      he exclaimed, in a voice of mingled astonishment, rage, and despair.—'  My husband!  '
      she cried, with a wild shriek; and she would have fallen on the pavement, had I not caught her
      in my arms.—'  Sir  ,' I said to the stranger, '  this lady is innocent, although
       appearances may be against her.  '—'  Innocent!  ' he repeated, in a tone of
      bitterness and grief: '  innocent when she comes calmly from the house of the Marquis of
       Holmesford, and sinks into the Marquis of Holmesford's arms! No: I am not to be deceived!
       Harriet, vile woman, I cast you off for ever!  '—And, with these words, the stranger
      hurried away."  
  "Alas! that was my poor father!" said Markham, the tears trickling down his cheeks.  
  "I had no opportunity to explain the circumstances that had occurred," continued the
      nobleman, after a pause. "Your father disappeared with the rapidity of lightning; and the
      moment he was gone, Harriet burst from my arms, evidently in pursuit of him. I was so
      bewildered with the suddenness of these events, that I remained transfixed as it were to the
      spot. At length I hurried down the street after Harriet;—but I could not overtake her.
      Distressed beyond measure, I returned home, vented my wrath upon the old woman, whom I loathed
      as the authoress of this misfortune, and drove her from my house. The wretch wrote to me
      afterwards, and even endeavoured to obtain an interview with me; but I would never see her
      more."  
  "And did your lordship lose sight of poor Harriet altogether?" asked Richard.  
  "I once received a letter from her," was the reply: "I think it must have been about a year
      after the occurrences which I have just related. She wrote in a mild and respectful
      tone—declaring that the sufferings of her half-famished child could alone have induced her to
      apply for assistance to me. I enclosed her a hundred pounds, and desired her in my letter of
      reply never to hesitate to avail herself of my purse—as I should not attempt to take any
      advantage of the assistance which I might render her. But to my astonishment she sent back
      eighty pounds—retaining only twenty, and declaring in a brief note that she felt ashamed of
      being even compelled to accept that sum. I never heard from her again; but I gather from your
      Highness's observations that she is no longer living!"  
  "She died unhappily,—miserably upwards of thirteen years ago," said Richard. "A strange
      combination of circumstances threw me in the way of her daughter,—the orphan whom she
      left—about fifteen months ago; and it was only last night that I discovered a sister in her
      whom I had known as Katherine Wilmot."  
  "Katherine Wilmot!" exclaimed the Marquis: "surely that name is known to me?"  
  "My sister was accused of a crime which the Rev. Reginald Tracy had in reality perpetrated;
      and——"  
  so clearly, was the daughter of poor Harriet."  
  "Katharine Markham—for such is now her name," said Richard, "was for a period the victim of
      circumstantial evidence—even as a combination of unfortunate circumstances had persecuted her
      mother before her. Yes—it was evidence of that kind which ruined Harriet in the eyes of my
      father! But I shall intrude no longer upon your lordship—unless it be to say that your candid
      explanation this day has gone far to retrieve the past in my estimation. For, oh! my lord—you
      can perhaps understand how welcome to me is the conviction that the mother of my
      newly-discovered sister was virtuous:—and to her, poor girl! the assurance of her parent's
      innocence will be joyful indeed! Every thing is now cleared up—and the narrative of
      Katherine's parentage is complete. Its truth is proved by the fact that certain letters now in
      my possession are in the handwriting of my father; and some which Harriet also wrote,
      correspond with a fragment of a note that the poor creature commenced on her death-bed, and
      which has remained in her daughter's possession. One link was alone wanting to make the
      history perfect—the occurrence of that night which was so fatal to my step-mother's happiness.
      That link your lordship has supplied;—and I thank you."  
  The Prince then took his leave of the Marquis.  
  Scarcely had Richard left the room, when Greenwood re-entered it from the back
      apartment.  
  His countenance was pale—his manner was agitated.  
  "What is the matter with you?" demanded the Marquis, astonished at his friend's altered
      mien.  
  "Your lordship cannot divine how nearly all that I have overheard concerns   me  ," was
      the answer.  
  And Greenwood left the house abruptly.  
  We must leave the reader to imagine the joy that prevailed at Markham Place, when the Prince
      returned thither, the bearer of those happy tidings which proved the legitimacy of Katherine
      and the innocence of her departed but not unlamented mother.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXVII.   COLDBATH FIELD'S PRISON.  
  Return we now to the Resurrection Man,—that incarnate fiend whose crimes were so numerous,
      and all of so black a dye.  
  Firmly bound, and guarded by three officers, who kept their bludgeons in their hands, the
      miscreant saw that all resistance was vain: he accordingly threw himself back in the cab that
      was bearing him to prison, and gave way to his saturnine reflections.  
  "If I had only thought that Richard Markham would have accompanied that young girl
      Katharine,"—it was thus he mused,—"a very different song would have been sung. But I knew that
      he was married only a week ago, and never dreamt that   he   would leave his pretty wife
      to poke his nose into Banks's crib. What an infernal oversight on my part! And now—here I am,
      regularly lumbered; and all the swag arising from Kate Wilmot's business is in the hands of
      that canting sneak Banks! Damnation to Richard Markham! I shall swing for this if I don't take
      precious good care. He'll swear to two different attempts on his life—one at the old house
      near Bird-cage Walk, and t'other at Twig Folly. What a cursed—ten times cursed fool I was to
      let myself tumble into a snare in this way! Some one else will find the gold that I have saved
      up; and when I shall be cold and stiff under the pavement of Newgate, others will riot on my
      treasure! But, no—it can't happen in that way: it's impossible that my time is come
      yet—impossible! I shall escape somehow or another;—I   must   escape—I   will  
      escape! But how? That question is the devil of the difficulty. Never mind—escape I will;—so I
      mustn't be down-hearted!"  
  These and numberless other reflections, in which despondency and hope alternately asserted a
      predominant influence, occupied the mind of Anthony Tidkins as the cab proceeded rapidly
      through Bethnal-Green and Shoreditch,—then along Old Street—up the Goswell Road—through
      Northampton Square—and lastly along Exmouth Street, in its way to Coldbath Fields' Prison.  
  At length the cab turned into the short road which forms the approach, within the wooden
      railings in front of the governor's dwelling, to the great gates of the gaol,—those gates over
      which may be read in large letters, "  Middlesex House of Correction  ."  
  A shudder crept over even the iron frame of Anthony Tidkins, as those huge portals, towering
      high above the cab which now drew up close to them, seemed to frown upon him like a colossal
      genius of evil amidst the obscurity of night.  
  Benstead leapt from the cab, and knocked loudly at the gate.  
  The iron din was responded to by gloomy echoes from the courts inside.  
  In a few minutes heavy chains fell, and the wicket was opened by a man bearing a
      lantern.  
  Benstead whispered to him for a few moments; and Tidkins was conducted into a little lobby
      on the left hand.  
  The turnkey, who had opened the gate, then proceeded to the governor's house, which was
      close by within the walls; and, after an absence of ten minutes, he returned with an
      affirmative answer to Benstead's request that the prisoner might be retained in custody in
      that gaol until a magistrate should otherwise dispose of him.  
  The turnkey accordingly led the way through the wicket of a strong iron grating, across a
      yard where a watchman armed with a loaded blunderbuss was stationed, and thence into a
      building, up the narrow stone staircase of which the party proceeded, until they reached a
      cell, where the Resurrection Man, who was now released from his bonds, was left.  
  Tidkins threw himself upon the bed and soon fell asleep. He was not an individual to whom
      danger or even the prospect of death could bring remorse: darkness and solitude had no alarms
      for him;—and, thus, in spite of the profound vexation he experienced at his present
      predicament, he yielded to the influence of fatigue and slept soundly.  
  On the following morning a bowl of gruel and a piece of bread were supplied for his
      breakfast; and he washed at the common sink belonging to that department of the gaol.  
  At ten o'clock Benstead and two other officers arrived, placed manacles upon him, and
      conveyed him to a cab, in which they seated themselves with him.  
  placed in the dock at the Lambeth Street Police Office.  
  The Prince of Montoni, attended by his solicitor, Mr. Dyson, had entered the court a few
      moments before; and the magistrate, upon being made acquainted with his name and rank,
      immediately threw down the newspaper, saying, "It is by no means necessary that your Highness
      should enter the witness-box: your Highness will do me the honour to accept a seat on the
      bench; and the clerk will take down your Highness's evidence at your Highness's leisure. Make
      room there, for his Highness: usher, clear the way for his Highness."  
  Scarcely able to conceal his disgust at this fulsome behaviour of the magistrate, the Prince
      coldly said, "I thank you, sir, for your politeness: but I cannot consent to receive a favour
      which would not be shown to a poor and obscure individual."  
  The magistrate turned very red, and bowed meekly, but without repeating his offer.  
  The case was then entered upon.  
  The Prince detailed the particulars of that adventure at the Resurrection Man's house in the
      neighbourhood of the Bird-cage Walk, with which the reader is already acquainted: and he also
      related the subsequent circumstances connected with the blowing up of the den—a deed which had
      cost several persons their lives, and which (added Markham) was no doubt perpetrated by
      Tidkins himself.  
  When these depositions were taken down, the Prince was about to enter upon his second
      charge—namely, the attack made upon him at Twig Folly: but the magistrate thought the first
      case had better be previously completed, and resolved upon remanding the prisoner for three
      days, in order to allow time to procure the evidence of those surviving policemen who had
      witnessed the fate of their brother-officers on the occasion of the blowing up of the
      house.  
  Tidkins was accordingly remanded to Coldbath Fields' Prison; and the Prince of Montoni
      immediately repaired in his carriage to Holmesford House—the particulars of which visit have
      been detailed in the preceding chapter.  
  On his return to the gaol, Tidkins was allowed to walk for an hour in the tread-wheel yard
      nearest to the entrance of the prison. There are several tread-mill yards in Coldbath Fields'
      gaol, alike for males and females; but we specify the particular yard in which the
      Resurrection Man was permitted to take exercise, because it has relation to a certain event
      which is to follow. It is also of the wheel in this yard that the fan, or balance, is seen
      above the wall near the south-western angle of the prison, by persons passing through Coldbath
      Square.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The tread-wheel is an enormous drum, or cylinder, with ranges of steps all round it, at a
      distance of about a foot and a half from each other. Between forty and fifty persons can work
      on the wheel at one time. It moves slowly round towards the prisoners placed upon it; and thus
      the step on which the foot stands descends, while the next step presents itself. A platform is
      built to half the height of the wheel; and from this platform the prisoners step upon the
      wheel itself. They support themselves by a railing, and their weight keeps the wheel in
      motion. Thus they   must   sink   with all their weight  , as they work on that
      rotatory engine of diabolical torture. The action is that of going up stairs, without,
      however, actually rising higher; for every step so reached sinks beneath the feet, and the
      prisoner is compelled to get upon the next one in its descent. Those prisoners who wait their
      turns to go on, sit upon the platform; and the task-master in the yard directs the intervals
      of labour and those of rest.  
  And upon this engine of torture, as we ere now denominated the tread-mill, not only boys of
      twelve years of age are placed, but even women!  
  forth their nauseating hypocrisy at Exeter Hall, and swindle the charitable of
      alms for the purpose of improving the condition of savages thousands of miles off, while there
      is such an awful want of instruction and moralising elements at home,—in the very centre of
      the English capital are women subjected to the ferocious torture of the tread-mill!  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The food is scanty;—and yet the labour thus forced upon the poor sickly, half-starved
      wretches, is horribly severe.  
  Three-quarters of the crimes which send prisoners to Coldbath Fields, are larcenies and
      robberies caused by dire penury and pinching want: the miserable beings are half-famished
      already when they enter that gaol; but they are nevertheless retained in something closely
      bordering on that state of constant hunger, while the hardest possible labour is required from
      them!  
  Remember, reader, that we do not wish idleness to prevail in a prison. It is just the place
      where habits of industry should be inculcated. We therefore approve of the system of workshops
      established in Coldbath Fields: we admire the oakum-room—the room, too, where shoe-making is
      taught—and that department of the prison in which rugs are manufactured for a wholesale
      warehouse that contracts for the purchase of the same.  
  But we abhor torture—we detest cruelty; and the tread-wheel is alike a torture and a
      cruelty!  
  It makes the heart bleed in the breast of the visitor to the female-division of Coldbath
      Fields, to behold women nursing their babes at one moment, and then compelled to deliver their
      sucklings to the care of their fellow-prisoners, while they themselves repair to take their
      turn upon the tread-mill!  
  Talk of the despotism of Turkey, Russia, Austria, or Prussia,—talk of the tyranny of those
      countries where the will of one man is a law, be it for good or evil,—we solemnly and
      emphatically cry, "  Look at home  !"  
  Flogging in the Army and Navy, private whipping in prisons, semi-starvation in workhouses
      and gaols, and the tread-wheel,—these are the tortures which exist in this land of boasted
      civilisation—these are the instances in which our rulers seek to emulate the barbarism of past
      ages and the wanton inhumanity of foreign autocrats!  
  Prison is kept in a most cleanly state. Perhaps the ventilation is not as perfect
      as it might be; and certainly the stone cells must be awfully cold in winter, for there are no
      means of imparting to them any artificial warmth. But as far as wholesome cleanliness is
      concerned, there is not the slightest ground whereon to raise a cavil against the
      establishment.  
  The discipline maintained in that gaol is on the Silent System. There it no separation—no
      classification—during the day; but the plan of silence prevents the corruption of the only
      moderately bad by the inveterately wicked. At night each individual sleeps apart in a
      cell.  
  Anthony Tidkins walked about the yard, affecting a moody and sullen air of indifference, but
      in reality catching with rapid glance every point of the buildings around him—every object
      within the range of his vision; so that he committed to memory a complete map of that division
      of the prison where he was now taking exercise.  
  Having walked an hour, he was re-conducted to his room where a bowl of pease-soup with a
      slice of bread was given to him for his dinner. In the evening he was supplied with a basin of
      gruel and another piece of bread, and was then locked in for the night.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXVIII.   A DESPERATE ACHIEVEMENT.  
  It was, as the readers must remember, in the middle of the month of March when these events
      occurred. At that season of the year the sun sets at about six o'clock; and it is consequently
      dark at seven.  
  The Resurrection Man was no sooner left undisturbed for the night, when he commenced the
      arduous and almost desperate attempt of an escape from the prison.  
  Taking off his coat, he tore open the lining of the collar, and drew forth two files
      scarcely larger than watch-springs, and made of steel of an equally fine temper.  
  "Thanks to my precaution in never moving away from home without such tools as these about
      me!" he exclaimed, as he bent the files almost double to try their elasticity, and then drew
      them over one of his nails to test the keenness of their teeth.  
  It is not an uncommon circumstance for the police-magistrates at the offices not within the
      City of London to remand prisoners accused of heinous crimes to Coldbath Fields' gaol; and as
      such persons cannot, according to the law, be deemed guilty until they be declared so by a
      jury, they are not lodged in the common dark cells allotted to misdemeanants or criminals
      sentenced to imprisonment within those walls. There is a room specially appropriated to the
      use of untried individuals who are sent to Coldbath Fields. That chamber is capable of holding
      four or five beds, and has two windows looking upon the prison-grounds.  
  Those windows are, however, secured by strong iron bars outside the casements, which are
      made to open for the purpose of airing the room in the day-time.  
  Tidkins had already carefully examined these bars, and had calculated to a nicety the exact
      time which it would occupy him to remove two of them by means of his files.  
  It was seven o'clock when he commenced his labour; and as the clock of the church on
      Clerkenwell Green struck eleven, that portion of his task was accomplished.  
  "True to a minute!" muttered the Resurrection Man to himself, with a low chuckle of triumph:
      "I reckoned on four hours to do it in!"  
  But his fingers were cut and lacerated with the process: he, however, assuaged the pain by
      greasing the flesh with the remainder of the gruel left in his bowl.  
  The next proceeding was to tear his bedding into slips, wherewith to form a rope; and this
      was accomplished in about half an hour.  
  The window was not very high from the ground; and he did not dread the descent:—but the moon
      was shining brightly—and he knew that watchmen, carrying fire-arms, kept guard in the
      prison-grounds.  
  He looked up at the lovely planet of the night, whose chaste splendour was at that moment
      blessed by so many travellers alike upon the land and on the ocean; and he uttered a fearful
      imprecation against its pure silvery lustre.  
  But he did not hesitate many minutes: his case was desperate—so was his character.  
  "Better receive an ounce of lead in the heart than dance on nothing in six weeks or so," he
      said to himself, as he fastened the rope to the bar which stood next to the place of the two
      that he had removed.  
  Then he passed his legs through the window; and clinging by his hands and feet, slid slowly
      and safely down the rope.  
  He was now in the grounds belonging to the prison; but the high wall, that bounded the
      enclosure, separated him from the street.  
  Cautiously and noiselessly did he creep along, beneath the shade of the building—directing
      his steps towards the tread-wheel yard in which he had been permitted to take exercise, as
      above stated.  
  Suddenly the noise of footsteps and of voices fell upon his ears; and those ominous sounds
      were approaching.  
  "Perdition!" thought the Resurrection Man, as he crouched up close beneath the building: "I
      could have managed one—I could have sprung upon him—strangled him in a moment. But
       two—  two  ——"  
  And he ground his teeth with rage.  
  "And so you was at the Old Bailey to-day?" said one of the watchmen to his companion, as
      they advanced round that part of the prison.  
  "Yes: it was my half-holiday," was the reply; "and so I thought I might as well go and hear
      the trial of that young Holford, you know, who shot at the Queen. The jury had a good deal of
      trouble at coming to a verdict; but at last they acquitted him on the ground of insanity."  
  "Ah!" said the first speaker: "then he's let out again?"  
  "Deuce a bit of that!" exclaimed his companion. "The judge ordered him to be detained till
      the royal pleasure should be known; and so he'll get sent to Bedlam for the rest of his
      life."  
  "And d'ye think he's mad? did he look mad?"  
  favour of the youngster, although he wasn't able to deny that he saw him fire at
      the Queen and Prince Albert. But the best of it was, this Jem Cuffin proved that the pistols
      wasn't loaded at all. Holford did not, however, know   that   when he fired them. So the
      young feller has managed to get board and lodging for life; and Jem Cuffin, who is a returned
      transport, it seems, and had been in custody for some time, was discharged on a full pardon
      granted by the Home Secretary."  
  "It must have been an interesting trial," observed the first speaker.  
  "Yes," said his companion; "but I'll tell you what will be more interesting still—and that
      is the trial of Tony Tidkins, whenever it comes on. Lord! what things that feller   has  
      done in his time! Talk of Jack Sheppard, or Dick Turpin, or any of the old criminals—why,
      they're nothing at all compared with this Tidkins. Ah! some rum things will come out when he
      goes up afore the nobs at the Old Bailey!"  
  The two men had stopped within half a dozen yards of the place where the Resurrection Man
      was crouched up in the deep shade of the building; and every word of the above conversation
      met his ears. In spite of the peril of discovery which now seemed inevitable, the miscreant
      experienced a momentary feeling of pride and triumph as he listened to the observations which
      were made concerning himself.  
  "Well, I must go round t'other way," said one of the watchmen, after a short pause: "we
      should get blowed up if we was found together—'specially talking in a prison on the   silent
       system  ."  
  This was meant as a joke; and so the two men chuckled at it.  
  Tidkins also chuckled within himself; because he had just learnt that the watchmen intended
      to separate, and that consequently only one would pass him. He was still menaced with a
      fearful peril; but he considered it to be only one half so great as it had seemed a few
      moments previously.  
  Midnight was now proclaimed by the iron tongue of Clerkenwell Church; and the two watchmen
      parted—one retracing his steps round the building; and the other slowly advancing towards
      Tidkins.  
  "I must spring upon him and throttle him in a moment," thought the Resurrection Man,
      clenching his fingers as if they already held the intended victim's neck in their iron
      grasp.  
  But Providence saved the miscreant from that additional crime:—the watchman struck abruptly
      away from the neighbourhood of the building, and walked towards the boundary wall.  
  His back was now turned upon Tidkins, who lost no time in availing himself of this
      unexpected relief from the danger which had threatened him. In fact, the very circumstance of
      the two watchmen having advanced so close to him in each other's company,—which circumstance
      had menaced him with a detection that seemed unavoidable,—now proved most advantageous to his
      scheme; for as he hurried rapidly on towards the first tread-wheel yard, he passed between the
      two watchmen, each of whom was retreating farther from him, the one by retracing his steps
      round the building, and the other by lounging towards the wall.  
  Thus, while their backs were turned upon him, he gained in safety the tread-wheel yard where
      he had taken exercise, and every point of which he had accurately committed to memory.  
  His movements were now executed with the rapidity of one who had well weighed and
      pre-considered them.  
  Taking from a corner a gardener's basket, which he had previously noticed there, and which
      was used to convey the potatoes that were dug up in the prison-grounds, he turned it bottom
      upwards against a low building, or out-house, which abutted with a shelving slate roof against
      the high wall. By means of the basket, he raised himself upon this roof—crept up on it—and
      with one nimble spring upwards was enabled to catch at the
        chevaux-de-frise  , or revolving iron spikes, which were fixed near the top
      of the wall, and which thus hung over the out-house.  
  Careless of the wounds which he received from the   chevaux-de-frise  , he
      scrambled over them, and gained the top of the wall.  
  The wall was much too high to permit him to drop into the street with any chance of escaping
      a broken limb. This he had previously reflected upon; and he now commenced the desperate feat
      of walking along the summit of that lofty wall—with a bright moon shining above, and the
      almost positive certainty of being observed by the watchmen inside the prison.  
  To increase the personal danger incurred by this extraordinary undertaking, the wall is
      irregular on the top, breaking into sudden and abrupt falls towards the south-western angle,
      and then rising with elevations equally abrupt from that point to the north-western angle.  
  This peculiarity of structure is caused by the unevenness of the ground on which the entire
      establishment with all its enclosures stands.  
  The journey along the top of the walls was not even a short one. The object of the
      Resurrection Man was to reach the houses in Guildford Place, which join the prison-wall on the
      eastern side. The point where he ascended was nearly at the middle of the southern wall; but
      between him and the south-eastern angle stood the gates and the governor's house, which he
      could not pass. He therefore had to make a circuit comprising nearly half the southern
      wall—all the western wall—all the northern wall—and then a part of the eastern wall;—and this
      in the largest prison in England!  
  It was a desperate venture: but—as we have before said—Tidkins was a desperate man—and his
      case was also desperate!  
  Fortune often aids the unworthy; and she did so upon this occasion.  
  Scarcely had the Resurrection Man proceeded twenty yards along the wall, when the
      moon—hitherto so lovely—became suddenly obscured; and a huge black cloud swept over its
      face.  
  Tidkins cast one rapid glance upwards; and his heart leapt within him, as he said to
      himself, "It will be dark like this long enough for my purpose."  
  On he went—walking upright, and rapidly—with scarcely an unusual effort to balance himself
      upon that giddy height,—and stooping only when he reached any of those abrupt descents or
      ascents in the structure of the wall which we have ere now noticed.  
  And now he has gained—safely gained—the north-western angle: he is pursuing his way along
      the wall which looks upon Calthorpe Street.  
  At the slightest signal of alarm he is prepared to risk his life by leaping from the
      wall.  
  But no one observes him: it is now quite dark;—he is far away from that part of
      the prison where the watchmen walk;—and the street beneath is empty.  
  Here and there are lights in the upper windows of the adjacent houses: he can almost see
      into those rooms, above the level of which he is placed.  
  Looking to his right, he perceives the dark outlines of the prison-buildings, between which
      and the northern wall, whereon he is now walking, there is a considerable interval, the
      intermediate space being occupied by the gaol-gardens.  
  His heart beats joyfully—triumphantly: he has gained the north-eastern angle!  
  A glance to the left shows him the lights of Bagnigge Wells: before him are those of
      Wilmington Square; and to his right is Guildford Place.  
  He felt that he was beyond the reach of danger; and so exhilarating was his joy, that a
      momentary dizziness seized upon him—and he nearly fell over within the precincts of the
      gaol.  
  But recovering his balance by an extraordinary exertion, he planted his feet more firmly
      than ever on the wall, and continued his walk along the dizzy height.  
  He was now again in danger of discovery; for he had reached that part of the eastern wall
      against which the buildings and tread-wheel yards of the females' department stood, and in the
      immediate vicinity of which a watchman was stationed.  
  Nevertheless, the houses in Guildford Place were near; and their back premises abutted
      against the outer side of the wall along which he was now proceeding.  
  "One minute more of that dark cloud upon the moon—and I am safe!" he said to himself, as he
      cast a rapid glance upwards.  
  But, no—the cloud passes!  
  It has passed;—and the bright moon suddenly bursts forth with a flood of silver light.  
  Almost at the same instant, a loud voice raises an alarm within the precincts of the gaol:
      the sharp crack of a blunderbuss is heard—and a bullet whistles past the Resurrection Man,
      whose dark form, as seen by the watchman near the females' department, stands out in strong
      relief against the moon-lit sky.  
  The cry of the watchman is echoed by other voices on the prison side of the wall; and
      Tidkins mutters a terrible curse as he hurries forward.  
  But his courage does not fail him:—no—he is determined to sell his life as dearly as
      possible!  
  In less than a minute after the watchman within the enclosure had raised the alarm, the
      Resurrection Man reached the backs of the houses in Guildford Place;—and now the clear
      moonlight was of the utmost service to him, in enabling him to execute his movements with
      security and caution.  
  He lowered himself from the prison-wall to the roof of an out-house, and thence alighted in
      a yard attached to a dwelling.  
  The back-door of the house was locked and bolted inside: but this was a small obstacle in
      the way of one who had just escaped from the Middlesex House of Correction.  
  Unable to waste time by proceeding with caution, and compelled to risk the chance of
      alarming the inhabitants of the dwelling, the desperate man threw himself with all his
      strength against the door, which broke inwards with a loud crash.  
  The noise was followed by ejaculations of alarm in the house; footsteps were heard overhead;
      windows were thrown open—and the cry of "Thieves!" echoed along the street.  
  Tidkins paused not to reflect:—he dashed through the house—along the passage to the front
      door, the bolts of which he drew back in a moment. The key was in the lock:—every thing now
      appeared to favour the escape of the Resurrection Man!  
  The front-door was opened in a few moments, just as the inmates of the dwelling were rushing
      down the stairs.  
  But when they reached the passage, the door closed violently behind the intruder who had
      caused their alarm.  
  The Resurrection Man was safe in the open street; and he knew that he had a good start of
      the prison watchmen, who would have to make a considerable circuit from the vicinity of the
      females' department to the gates, and from the gates round the south-eastern angle, ere they
      could reach the point from which he was now departing.  
  Swift as an arrow he scud up Guildford Place—turned to the right—and slackened his pace only
      when he had passed through Wilmington Square. He gained the City Road, along which he walked
      somewhat leisurely towards Finsbury—well aware that his pursuers would not think of looking
      for him in a wide and open thoroughfare, but would rather prosecute their searches in the
      narrow lanes and low districts in the immediate neighbourhood of the gaol.  
  His object was to gain his den in Globe Town; for not a word had transpired during his
      examination before the magistrate at Lambeth Street, to show that the police had any clue to
      his place of abode; and he felt certain that Banks would not have betrayed him. The
      undertaker, he knew, was too deeply concerned in many of his plots and schemes to risk a
      general smash of the whole gang, by making any unpleasant revelations.  
  The Resurrection Man struck from the City Road into Old Street, and speedily reached
      Shoreditch.  
  As he passed down one of the horrible lanes which lie behind Shoreditch Church, he observed
      the door of a public-house to be open. He was well aware of the flash character of the place,
      but did not happen to be known by the people who kept it.  
  He entered this low boozing-ken, ordered a glass of something at the bar, and inquired for
      the evening paper. It was immediately handed to him; for all flash houses of that description
      take an evening as well as a morning journal, that their customers may receive the earliest
      intelligence of each day's Police or Old Bailey proceedings—matters in which the generality of
      them are very frequently interested.  
  Tidkins turned to the most recent Police Intelligence, and found his own case duly reported.
      Nothing, however, was said in that or any other department of the paper, which tended to
      excite an alarm lest his house in Globe Town had been discovered or any of his accomplices in
      his various crimes had been traced.  
  Thus reassured, he drank off the contents of his glass, and then recollected that he had no
      money in his pocket to pay for it. All he had about him when he was arrested, had been taken
      from him, according to custom, on his removal to Coldbath Fields.  
  Scarcely had this new embarrassment presented itself to his mind, when the door
      of the tap-room opened, and a man came forth. To Tidkins's infinite relief it proved to be the
      Buffer, who started when he saw his old friend at liberty.  
  The Resurrection Man placed his finger upon his lip; and the Buffer instantly checked the
      ejaculation of astonishment which had risen to his tongue.  
  The trifling debt incurred for the liquor was immediately settled by the Resurrection Man's
      friend; and the precious pair left the boozing-ken together.  
  As they walked along towards Globe Town, Anthony Tidkins related the particulars of his
      escape, at which the Buffer was monstrously delighted. Then, in reply to the Resurrection
      Man's questions, the other stated that he had seen Banks on the previous afternoon, and that
      no inquiries of a suspicious nature had been made at that individual's abode.  
  When they reached the door of the Resurrection Man's house in Globe Town, the Buffer took
      leave of his friend, with a promise to call in the course of the day and bring the morning's
      newspapers.  
  Tidkins was overjoyed when he again set foot in his back room on the first floor: and
      finding some gin in the cupboard, he celebrated his escape and return with a copious dram.  
  He did not immediately retire to bed, although he was sadly fatigued and bruised by the
      achievements of the night; but, taking down a bundle of keys from a shelf, he paid a visit to
      the subterranean department of his establishment.  
  The moment he placed the key in the lock of the private door up the narrow alley, he uttered
      a curse, adding, "This lock has been tried—tampered with! I know it—I could swear to it: I can
      tell by the way that the key turns!"  
  And the perspiration ran down his countenance:—for he trembled for the safety of his
      treasure!  
  With feverish impatience he opened the door, and entered that part of his strangely-built
      house.  
  Having obtained a light, a new circumstance of alarm struck him: the door of the back room
      was standing wide open!  
  "And I can swear that I closed it the last time I ever came here!" he cried aloud. "Some one
      has been to this place;—and that some one must be Banks! The sneaking scoundrel! But he shall
      suffer for it."  
  With a perception as keen as that of the North American Indian following the trail of a
      fugitive foe, did the Resurrection Man examine the floor of the room; and his suspicions that
      some one had been thither were confirmed by the appearance of several particles of damp dirt,
      which had evidently been left by the feet of an intruder within the last few hours.  
  "Worse and worse!" thought the Resurrection Man. "And, by Satan! the trap has been
      raised!"  
  This was evident; for the brick which covered the iron ring in the masonry of the chimney,
      had not been restored to its place.  
  "I could not have left it so!" cried Tidkins, aloud: "no—it is impossible! Some one
         has   been here!"  
  With almost frantic impatience he raised the trap, and descended into the subterranean.  
  Entering one of the cells,—not the same whence the Rattlesnake had stolen his treasure,—he
      raised a stone, and then almost shrank from glancing into the hollow thus laid open.  
  But mastering his fears,—those fears which owned the influence of avarice far more than that
      of danger or of crime,—he held the lantern over the hole, and plunged his eyes into its
      depth.  
  "Safe!—all safe—by God!" he exclaimed, as four or five canvass bags met his view.  
  Then, in order to convince himself of the reality of the presence of his treasure, he opened
      the bags one after the other, and feasted his sight upon their glittering contents.  
  "It can hardly be Banks who has been here," he mused to himself, as he restored the bags to
      their place of concealment, and then rolled the stone back into its setting: "nothing could
      escape the keenness of his scent! He would have pulled up all the pavement sooner than have
      missed what he came to look for. And then, too, he is not the man to leave the brick out of
      its place, so as to show the secret of the stone-trap to any other curious intruder that might
      find his way here. No—no: Master Banks would pay a second and a third visit to this place, if
      he felt sure of finding any thing concealed here; and he would leave every thing close and
      snug after each search. But some one   has   been here! Unless—and I might have done such
      a thing as to forget to replace the brick,—I   might   have done so;—and yet it is barely
      possible!" continued Tidkins, in deep perplexity, and almost as much alarmed as Robinson
      Crusoe was upon discovering the print of the human foot upon the sand of his island. "Then
      there is that damp mud, too—and the door that was open—and the lock that has been tampered
      with! But suppose the mud came from my own shoes the last time I was here? the place is very
      damp—and it mayn't have got dry. It might also have been myself that left the door open;—and
      as for the lock—it is an old one, and may begin to work badly. Besides—I remember—the last
      time I was here, I was in a deuce of a hurry: it was just before I went down to Banks's to see
      him settle that job with Kate Wilmot. So, after all—my fears may be all idle and vain!
      However, I shall send for Banks presently, when the Buffer comes again; and I'll precious soon
      tell by his sneaking old face whether he has been here, or not, during my absence!"  
  Thus reasoning against the feasibility of his fears,—as men often do in cases of doubt and
      uncertainty, and when they are anxious to persuade themselves of the groundlessness of their
      alarms,—Tidkins left the subterranean, and returned to his chamber, where he immediately went
      to bed.  
  But his fears   were   well founded: some one   had   visited the subterranean
      during the hours while he himself was occupied in escaping from Coldbath Fields' Prison.  
  That intruder was not, however, Banks—nor any one of the Resurrection Man's accomplices in
      crime.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXIX.   THE WIDOW.  
  We must now return to that beautiful little villa, in the environs of Upper Clapton, to
      which we introduced our readers in the early portion of this history, and where we first found
      Eliza Sydney disguised in the garb of a man.  
  charming suburban retreat, either externally or internally,—unless it were that
      there were no dogs in the kennels nor horses in the stables, and that the elegant boudoir no
      longer displayed articles of male attire.  
  But the trees around were green with the verdure of Spring; the fields, stretching behind
      far as the eye could reach, were smiling and cultivated; and umbrageous was the circular grove
      that bounded the garden.  
  In the parlour on the ground-floor still hung the miniatures of Eliza and her dead
      brother—that brother whom she had personated with such fatal consequences to herself!  
  And now on the sofa in that parlour sate Eliza Sydney herself,—dressed in deep mourning.  
  She was pale—but beautiful as ever!  
  The snow-white widow's cap concealed her bright chesnut hair, save where the shining masses
      were parted, glossy and smooth, over her lofty and polished forehead.  
  The high black dress and plain collar covered the snowy whiteness of her neck, but still
      displayed the admirable   contours   of her bust.  
  Her countenance bore a somewhat melancholy but resigned expression; and the amiability of
      her soul shone in her large, soft, melting hazel eyes.  
  It was noon—about a week after the date of the incidents related in the preceding
      chapter.  
  Scarcely had the time-piece upon the mantel proclaimed the mid-day hour, when a carriage
      drove up to the front door of the villa.  
  A few moments elapsed; and three visitors were ushered into the parlour where Eliza awaited
      them.  
  These were the Prince and Princess of Montoni and Katherine Markham.  
  Eliza extended her hand with ingenuous courtesy towards Richard, saying, "Prince, no selfish
      feelings can prevent me from congratulating you on that proud position which your prowess and
      your virtues have achieved for yourself." Then, offering her hand to Isabella, she added, "Nor
      need I wait for a formal introduction to one whom I now see for the first time, but of whom I
      have heard so much that I am well prepared to become her friend—if her Highness will permit
      me."  
  There was something so sweet and touching—something so frank and sincere—in the manner of
      the exiled Grand-Duchess of Castelcicala, that Isabella's heart was instantaneously warmed
      towards her. Moreover, the young Princess felt all the noble generosity of that conduct on the
      part of one who had lost a throne by the events which had led to the happiness of herself and
      her husband, and which had achieved the exaltation of her parents.  
  Thus were those two beauteous creatures attracted to each other the instant they met; and
      Isabella, instead of receiving the out-stretched hand that was offered as the pledge of
      friendship, threw herself into Eliza's arms.  
  It was a touching picture,—the embrace of that charming bride and that scarcely less
      charming widow!  
  In due course Markham presented his sister to the exiled Grand-Duchess, who received her in
      the most affable and cordial manner.  
  When the first excitement of this meeting was over, and they were all seated, Eliza broke a
      temporary silence which ensued.  
  "The last time we met, Prince," she said, addressing herself to our hero, "no human
      foresight could have divined the great events that were so shortly to ensue—the brilliant
      destinies that were in waiting for yourself."  
  "And if there be one regret which I have experienced," observed Richard, "arising from those
      events, it is that they deprived an amiable lady of that throne which her virtues embellished.
      But the cause of Castelcicalan freedom outweighed all other considerations; and the duty
      imposed upon me by those adherents who made me their Chief, was stern, solemn, and
      imperative."  
  "You need not reproach yourself," exclaimed Eliza: "you need not entertain a moment's regret
      on my account! All that occurred was inevitable—and it was for the best. Castelcicala panted
      for freedom—and she had a right to claim it. This I may assert without injustice—without
      insult to the memory of my husband. And had no such reclamation been made by the people of
      Castelcicala—had no revolution occurred—had Angelo been more prudent, and less severe—Alberto
      would still at this moment be the sovereign of that country. For my husband had long been
      afflicted with a disease of the heart that was incurable, and that must inevitably have
      terminated in a sudden death. As I informed you in my letter of yesterday, he had scarcely
      reached the city of Vienna, where he was received as became his rank, and lodged in one of the
      imperial palaces, when he was taken ill, and in a few hours breathed his last. His misfortunes
      could not have accelerated an event which his physicians had previously seen to be near at
      hand—although this prescience was all along religiously concealed from me. You have therefore,
      Prince, naught wherewith to reproach yourself on that head."  
  "Your kind assurances are conveyed in a spirit worthy of your generous heart," said
      Richard;—and Isabella, who was greatly affected by the noble behaviour of Eliza,
      enthusiastically echoed her husband's sentiments.  
  "It was but a week ago," continued Eliza, "that I received the tidings of the late
      Grand-Duke's death. He had misunderstood me—he had suspected me—and we had parted in anger:
      nay—I had fled to save myself from his fury!"  
  "May I hope—and yet I dare not—that the generous behaviour of your Serene Highness towards
      me," observed Richard, "proved not the cause of that lamentable misunderstanding?"  
  "Oh! I should be grieved—deeply grieved, were such indeed the case!" exclaimed Isabella;
      "for Richard has made me acquainted with all the details of your Serene Highness's noble
      conduct towards him after he was taken prisoner at Ossore."  
  "I will explain all," said Eliza. "But, in the first place," she added, with a sweet smile,
      "let me entreat a favour of you all. You style me by that title which became mine when I was
      honoured with the hand of the late Grand-Duke Angelo, and which still is mine, did I choose to
      adopt it;—for the new Government has passed no decree to deprive me of it."  
  "Nor ever will!" exclaimed Richard, warmly.  
  to England;—and by that name do I wish to be known. Nay—I implore you not to
      interrupt me: if you would please me—if you would do aught to contribute to my happiness—if
      you value my poor friendship,—that friendship, which, poor as it is, I so cordially offer to
      you all,—let me henceforth be Eliza Sydney, as I once was. When I came back three months ago
      to my native land, I re-entered this house—which is my own—with feelings of a far more
      peaceful happiness than those which I experienced when I first set foot as its mistress in the
      palace of Montoni. Here do I hope to pass the remainder of my days; and if you will sometimes
      come to cheer my solitude, I shall require no other source of felicity—no other society."  
  "We will visit you often, dearest Eliza—for so you will permit me to call you," said
      Isabella; "and you must come to our dwelling frequently—very frequently! It shall be the care
      of my husband, his dear sister Katherine, and myself, and also of the friends who dwell with
      us, to contribute to your happiness to the utmost of our power!"  
  Eliza pressed Isabella's hand, and smiled sweetly upon her and Katherine through the tears
      that stood upon her lashes.  
  "But I promised you an explanation of those events which led to my precipitate departure
      from Castelcicala," continued Eliza, after a short pause. "You must know that the loss which
      the ducal troops experienced at Ossore—chiefly through your prowess, Prince—overwhelmed my
      late husband with a fury which rendered him terrible to all around. He threatened the most
      deadly vengeance against the Constitutional prisoners, and was only persuaded by my entreaties
      and prayers to relinquish the extreme measures which he at first conceived against them. It
      was, I think, on the fourth day after you, Prince, left Montoni, disguised as an artist, and
      with a passport made out in a fictitious name, that the usher who had admitted you into the
      palace, and who, it appeared, had listened at the door of the room where our interview took
      place, betrayed the whole circumstances to the Grand-Duke. The Grand-Duke came immediately to
      my apartment, overwhelmed me with reproaches, and levelled the most unjust accusations against
      me. But I will not insult you nor your amiable bride by repeating all that the Duke said on
      that occasion. Never were suspicions more cruel: never was woman's conduct so thoroughly
      misunderstood—so unjustly interpreted! His Serene Highness commanded me to keep my own
      chamber—to consider myself a prisoner! An hour afterwards, Signor Bazzano contrived to obtain
      access to me, unperceived by the spies set to watch me. His uncle was, as I think I informed
      you when we met at Montoni, Prince, the Under-Secretary of State for the Home Department; and
      from that relative Bazzano had learnt the fearful tidings which he came to impart to me. It
      appeared that the Grand-Duke intended to appoint a Commission of Judges and Councillors of
      State to try me—  me  , his wife! All his former affection for me had suddenly changed,
      beneath the weight of his injurious suspicions, into the most unbounded hatred. I knew that he
      would form the Commission of men rather inclined to do the royal bidding than to investigate
      the entire matter with justice and impartiality. He was a prince who knew no other law than
      his own sovereign will! Alas! that was his failing; and it triumphed over all the better
      feelings of a mind naturally generous! Signor Bazzano also informed me that spies had been
      sent out all over the country to track you, Prince; and that your death, should you be
      captured, was determined upon. Fortunately, however, you escaped the pursuit of your
      foes!"  
  "And yet what danger must you have incurred!" exclaimed Isabella, gazing with tearful
      affection at her husband.  
  "Providence shielded you, dearest brother," murmured Katherine.  
  "Yes—Providence shielded him for its own wise and good purposes," added Eliza Sydney. "To
      continue the thread of my narrative, I must observe that the information brought me by the
      faithful Bazzano filled me with alarm. I already saw myself disgraced by an unjust verdict:—my
      life was even in danger. I was not compelled to implore Signor Bazzano to assist me to escape:
      he proposed the step as the only means of safety alike to myself and to him—for he was already
      endangered by the revelations of the usher, although the influence of his uncle had served to
      shield him from the immediate vengeance of the Grand-Duke. A post-chaise was procured by
      Bazzano that same afternoon; and I managed to escape from the palace, accompanied by Louisa—a
      faithful Englishwoman who has been in my service for some years. At Friuli Signor Bazzano met
      you, Prince, and gave you a timely warning, the nature of which you can now understand. For it
      was known that you had quitted Montoni, attended by a servant of dark complexion; and the
      spies sent after you were therefore led to inquire for   two persons   answering a
      certain description, and journeying together. Thence the recommendation to separate company,
      which Bazzano so wisely gave you; and perhaps to that circumstance of thus parting from your
      servant you each owed your safety. In reference to my own flight it only remains for me to say
      that we proceeded to Montecuculi, having left behind us at Friuli an impression that we were
      going in quite another direction. Arrived in safety at Montecuculi, we sent back the chaise to
      Montoni, and secured places in a public vehicle for the nearest town in the Roman States. Our
      perils were soon over:—we travelled day and night until we reached Leghorn, in Tuscany, whence
      we embarked on board a vessel bound for England. Shortly after my arrival here, the news of
      the Castelcicalan insurrection reached this country; and then I heard, Prince, that you were
      at the head of the Constitutionalists."  
  "But I did not violate my promise to you," observed Richard. "I pledged myself, on the
      occasion of our interview at Montoni, never to draw the hostile weapon in Castelcicala, save
      at the command of Alberto and in a just cause, or to relieve the Grand-Duchy from a foreign
      invader."  
  Prince, and me at our interview immediately after the defeat of the
      Constitutionalists at Ossore: I told him how deeply he had wronged me with the most injurious
      suspicions; and I implored him to allow me to join him, and comfort him in his exile—in his
      misfortunes! The answer I received was satisfactory—was in itself all I could wish;—but it was
      accompanied by the tidings of his death! On the bed from which he never rose again, he
      recognised my innocence—he acknowledged his injustice—he besought me to forgive him!"  
  "Heaven be thanked that, through your goodness towards me, you were not doomed to undergo
      the additional torment of his dying enmity!" ejaculated the Prince, fervently.  
  "Rest tranquil on that head," returned Eliza. "I have now told you all that concerns myself.
      I may, however, observe that I should have sought an interview with you sooner, only I was
      unwilling to disturb the first few days of your happiness with your charming bride."  
  "Would that you had written to me the moment I arrived in England!" cried Richard. "The
      parents of Isabella would have been rejoiced to obtain your friendship! But you have not yet
      told us what has become of the faithful Mario Bazzano. I owe him a debt of deep gratitude; and
      if he be in this country still——"  
  "He   is   in England," interrupted Eliza; "and as I felt persuaded that you would
      comply with the request contained in my letter of yesterday, and come hither to-day, I wrote
      to Signor Bazzano to request his presence in the afternoon. We may, therefore, expect him
      shortly. He has grown very melancholy of late—I know not why: some secret care appears to
      oppress him! On our arrival in England, he hired apartments at the West-End; but shortly
      afterwards he encountered an English officer with whom he had formed an acquaintance some
      years ago in Montoni. It appears that this officer was travelling at that time in Italy: and
      during his temporary stay in the Castelcicalan capital, he and Signor Bazzano grew intimate.
      When they met at the West-End two or three months ago, this officer pressed Signor Bazzano to
      stay with him at some town near London, where his regiment is stationed. Signor Bazzano
      accepted the invitation; and for some weeks I saw nothing of him. Since his return to London
      he has not appeared to be the same being. It is true that I see him but seldom: still that
      change has not escaped my notice. He is fond of solitude and long lonely walks, in which he
      employs the greater portion of his time—save those hours which he devotes to the study of
      English by the aid of a master; and I can assure you that his progress in acquiring our
      language has been truly remarkable."  
  "Perhaps his melancholy is produced by absence from his native land," said Richard. "There
      can be no possible reason for him to remain in exile against his inclination; and should he
      wish to return to Italy, I will provide him with strong recommendations to the
      Grand-Duke."  
  "No—he does not desire to leave England," answered Eliza; "for I myself have questioned him
      upon that subject. I am rather inclined to believe that some motive of a more tender
      nature—some hopeless attachment, perhaps—has produced in him the alteration which I have seen
      and deplored. But he will be here shortly; and——"  
  Eliza was interrupted by a loud knock at the front door.  
  Katherine sighed: for the words of the royal widow had aroused within her gentle breast
      painful remembrances of her own romantic and apparently hopeless attachment!  
  The door opened; and Signor Bazzano was introduced.  
  Richard immediately hastened forward to greet him.  
  But—how strange!—a cry of wild delight burst from the lips of the handsome Castelcicalan, as
      his eyes encountered   one   particular countenance in that room;—and at the same moment
      Katherine clung convulsively to Isabella's arm, as if to save herself from falling from the
      sofa.  
  For Mario Bazzano was the hero of the young maiden's romantic adventures at Hounslow!  
  Katherine, with the ingenuous confidence of a sister, had revealed to her brother, and also
      to Isabella, the particulars of those strange meetings with the "handsome unknown," and had
      not attempted to disguise the impression made upon her heart by that individual,—an impression
      against which she had vainly endeavoured to struggle.  
  Thus, when those tokens of recognition were manifested alike by Mario Bazzano and Katherine
      Markham, both Richard and Isabella instantly divined the cause.  
  "Pardon me, your Highness," exclaimed the Castelcicalan officer, endeavouring to throw off
      the trammels of embarrassment, and speaking in excellent English; "but—that young lady—I think
      I have seen her——before——I——"  
  "Perhaps," interrupted the Prince, laughing. "At all events I will introduce her to you
      now—for she is my sister."  
  "Your sister, my lord!" cried Mario, in a tone which expressed some degree of vexation at
      this announcement—as if he dared not aspire to so near a relative of a personage of our hero's
      rank.  
  "Throw aside all ceremony with me, Bazzano," said Richard, shaking him warmly by the hand.
      "I am your debtor—deeply your debtor. You saved my life after the defeat of Ossore: your
      conduct was too generous—too noble ever to be lightly valued. But, say—was it near Hounslow
      that you have met my sister?"  
  And as he spoke, he glanced slily towards the blushing Katherine, who was half hiding her
      countenance behind Isabella.  
  "It was—it was!" exclaimed Mario. "And will your Highness be offended if I confess that your
      charming sister made a profound impression upon my mind? Although believing her to be only the
      daughter of the tenants of that farm-house near which I encountered her in her walks, I felt
      myself irresistibly attracted towards her! And,—but your Highness will laugh at my romantic
      dreams,—I determined to acquire the English language for her sake—that I might speak to
      her—that I might render myself intelligible to her!"  
  "We will give you an opportunity of convincing her of your proficiency in our native tongue,
      Mario," said the Prince, again smiling—but with kindness, and in a manner well calculated to
      reassure the young Italian officer, whom he led towards Katherine.  
  she felt her hand pressed in that of him who had now for some months occupied so
      large a portion of her thoughts!  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "You guessed rightly as to the cause of Signor Bazzano's melancholy and altered appearance,"
      whispered Isabella to Eliza, as they walked towards the window from which Richard was now
      gazing upon the prospect spread before the villa.  
  Then Mario and Katherine began to converse,—timidly and with frequent intervals of silence
      at first: but by degrees those intervals became shorter and shorter;—and at length the young
      officer found himself describing how he had felt deeply grieved at being unable to utter a
      word to her in her own tongue when they had met in the fields near the farm,—how he had torn
      himself away from the spot and returned to London to study English,—how he had gone back to
      Hounslow a few days afterwards, and vainly wandered about in those fields with the hope of
      seeing her,—how he conceived at length that she must purposely remain within the house to
      avoid him, the idea that she had left the neighbourhood never entering his mind,—how he had
      returned again to London and pursued his English studies under the romantic impression that
      they would some day serve him in respect to the attachment he had formed for her,—and how he
      paid frequent visits to the vicinity of the farm, and was at length almost compelled to
      abandon the hope of ever seeing her again.  
  All this he suddenly found himself telling her; and she as suddenly found herself listening
      to him with attention,—neither quite recollecting how the subject had first been touched
      upon.  
  Their pleasant   tête-a-tête   was at length interrupted by Eliza Sydney, who
      tapped them each on the shoulder, with the laughing assurance that the servant had already
      announced luncheon three times; and then Kate's countenance was again suffused with blushes,
      as she took the proffered arm of her lover to repair to the apartment where an elegant
      collation was served up.  
  The afternoon passed speedily away; and all were so happy that they were in no haste to
      break up such a pleasant party. Eliza accordingly insisted that her guests should remain to
      dinner—an invitation which was accepted.  
  carriage and Mario's horse were ordered round to the door.  
  And when the young officer separated from Katharine, it was not without an assurance from
      her brother that he would always be a welcome guest at Markham Place.  
  Great was the surprise, but not less the joy, of Ellen Monroe, when Katherine, on her return
      home and ere the two young ladies sought their couch, made her friend acquainted with the
      elucidation of the mystery of "the handsome stranger."  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXX.   BETHLEM HOSPITAL.  
  What contrasts does mortal existence present to view!  
  While some are joyous and happy in one place, others are overwhelmed with sorrow and
      affliction elsewhere! At the same moment that the surgeon ushers a new being into life, the
      hand of the executioner cuts short the days of another.   Here   the goblet sparkles with
      the ruby wine—  there   the lip touches the poisoned glass of suicide:—in   this  
      abode a luxurious banquet is spread upon the table—in   that   the wretched inmate has
      not a crust to stay the cravings of famine!  
  Thus was it that while the hostess and the guests were blithe and happy in the villa near
      Clapton, a painful scene was in process of enactment elsewhere.  
  It was about five o'clock on that same evening when a cab stopped at the prisoners' gate of
      Newgate; and from the vehicle stepped a tall, powerfully-built, and rather good-looking man
      dressed in plain clothes. He was accompanied by a Superintendent and Serjeant of Police.  
  They were immediately admitted into the lobby of the gaol; and the turnkey, after bestowing
      upon them a nod of recognition, said, "You needn't tell me to guess what you're come about. So
      the youngster is to go over, then—after all?"  
  "Yes," replied the tall man in plain clothes. "The Secretary of State's warrant was sent
      down here about an hour ago. I suppose Cope is in?"  
  "Step into the office, Mr. Busby, and see," answered the turnkey.  
  The tall man, who responded to the name of Busby, accordingly passed from the lobby into the
      governor's office.  
  "Any thing new?" asked the turnkey, rubbing his nose with the end of the massive emblem of
      his office, and accosting the two police authorities, who had seated themselves on the bench
      facing the gate.  
  "Not that I know on," returned the Serjeant; "leastways nothink partickler—unless it is that
      my Superintendent here is doing someot in the littererry line, and writing a book about Great
      Criminals, and Police, and Prisons, and all that there kind of thing."  
  "You don't say so?" ejaculated the turnkey.  
  "Yes, sir—Mr. Crisp is quite right," said the Superintendent, pompously: "I   ham  
      getting up a work on them subjects; but my official po-sition will compel me to publish it
      enonnymusly, as they say. And while we're here, Crisp, we may as well take down a few
      notes—for I must inform you," continued the Superintendent, addressing himself once more to
      the turnkey, "that my friend and subordingate Mr. Crisp is helping me in this here labour of
      love."  
  "Well, sir," returned the gaol functionary, "any information that I can give you, I shall be
      most happy to furnish you with, I'm sure."  
  "Thank'ee kindly," said the Superintendent. "Now, Crisp, out with your note-book, and fall
      to. Busby will be half an hour or so in the office. Pray, sir, what may be the anniwal average
      of prisoners, male and female, in Newgate?"  
  "About three thousand males and eight hundred females," answered the turnkey.  
  "Put that down, Crisp. I suppose in the males you includes boys, and in the females you
      comprises gals?"  
  "Certainly," was the reply.  
  "Put that down, Crisp. Now what's the state of discipline here?" asked the Superintendent.
      "I've heerd a good deal about it, in course; but I'd rayther have it direct from a 'ficial
      source."  
  "Why, there isn't much to say on that point," returned the functionary thus appealed to. "We
      let the prisoners have pretty much their own way: they gamble, play at ball, fight, swear,
      sing, and lark in the wards just as they like."  
  "Put that down, Crisp. It's a blessing to think of the state of freedom one enjoys even in
      the gaols of this enlightened and liberal nation."  
  "To be sure it is," said the turnkey. "The young thieves consider Newgate to be a capital
      school for improvement in their profession: when they're at chapel, they're always practising
      pick-pocketing on each-other."  
  "What's bred in the bone will never go out of the flesh," observed the Superintendent. "But
      the poor creeturs must have some diwersion. Put that down, Crisp."  
  "Ah! Newgate has seen some rum things in its time," moralised the turnkey. "It has been a
      felon's gaol for well-nigh seven hundred years."  
  "Has it, though?" cried the Superintendent. "Now, then, Crisp—put that down."  
  "And ever since I first come here," continued the turnkey, "there have been constant
         Reports   drawn up about the state of discipline; but I never see that any change
      follows."  
  "Put that down, Crisp. When   my   book is published, my good fellow, you'll jist see
      what the world will say about a change! There's no need of change—and that I'll undertake to
      prove. Newgate is the very palace of prisons. Lord bless us! it would do half the Aldermen
      themselves good to pass a few days in such a pleasant place."  
  "Sometimes we have a few discontented fellows here that don't like to associate with the
      rest," proceeded the turnkey; "and then they ask to be thrown into solitary cells."  
  "Put that down, Crisp. I suppose they're always gratified in their wishes?" asked the
      Superintendent.  
  "Oh! always," replied the turnkey. "But the worst of all is that the chaplain here is
      nothing more or less than a regular spy upon the governor and the officials, and constantly
      reports to the Home Office every thing that occurs."  
  "Put that down, Crisp. Such conduct is shameful; and I wonder the Gaol Committee of Aldermen
      don't take the matter up."  
  "So they will," rejoined the turnkey. "But here comes Busby."  
  And, as he spoke, the tall man in plain clothes re-entered the lobby.  
  "All right?" asked the Superintendent.  
  "Yes. We'll take him over at once," was the reply.  
  The turnkey stepped into a passage leading to the interior of the gaol, and gave some
      instructions to a colleague who was stationed there.  
  A few minutes afterwards Henry Holford, dressed in his own clothes, and not in the
      prison-garb, was led into the lobby by the official to whom the turnkey had spoken.  
  The youth was well in health, and by no means cast down in spirits. His face, at no period
      remarkable for freshness of colour, was less pallid than it ever before had been. There were,
      however, a certain apathy and indifference in his manner which might have induced a
      superficial observer to conclude that his reason was in reality affected; but a careful
      examination of the expression of his countenance and a few minutes' study of his intelligent
      dark eyes, would have served to convince even the most sceptical that, however morbid his mind
      might for an interval have become, that excitement or disease had passed away, and he was now
      as far removed from insanity as the most rational of God's creatures.  
  "Come, young man," said Mr. Busby, with great kindness of manner, as if he were endeavouring
      to conciliate an individual whom he actually deemed to be of disturbed intellects; "you are
      going along with me—and I'll take you to a nice house with a pleasant garden, and where you'll
      be well treated."  
  "I am at no loss to imagine the place to which you allude," said Holford, an expression of
      slyness curling his lip. "Better Bedlam than Newgate."  
  "He's no more mad than me, Crisp," whispered the Superintendent to the Serjeant.  
  "Not a bit, sir," was the reply.  
  "You may put that down, Crisp," continued the Superintendent, still speaking aside to his
      subordinate. "It will all do to go into our report to the Home Secretary. How capital that
      turnkey allowed himself to be pumped by me, to be sure! Don't you think I did it very
      well?"  
  "Very well, sir, indeed," returned Crisp. "But I introduced the subject for you, by saying
      that you was okkipied in writing a book."  
  "Good hidear, that, Crisp," rejoined the Superintendent. "The turnkey little thought we was
      spies, while he blowed up about the chaplain."  
  "In course you'll make out Newgate a horrid place, sir?" said Crisp.  
  "In course I shall," answered the Superintendent, emphatically; "'cos it'll please the Home
      Secretary. But there's Busby a-calling after us."  
  This was indeed the case; for while the two police-officers were thus engaged in the
      interchange of their own little private sentiments, Mr. Busby had conducted Holford to the
      cab, and had ensconced himself therein by the side of the prisoner.  
  The Superintendent followed them into the vehicle; and, at the suggestion of Busby, who
      declared in a whisper to that functionary that three men were not needed to take care of one
      boy, the farther services of Crisp were dispensed with.  
  And now the cab rolled rapidly along the Old Bailey, turned down Ludgate Hill, thence into
      Bridge Street, and over Blackfriars Bridge, in its way to Bethlem.  
  How strange to Holford appeared the busy, bustling streets, and that river—"the silent
      highway"—on whose breast all was life and animation,—after the seclusion of several weeks in
      Newgate!  
  But—ah! did he not now behold those scenes for the last time? would not he thenceforth
      become dead to the world? was he not about to be immured in a living tomb?  
  Never—never more would the echoes of the myriad voices of the great city meet his ears! He
      was on his way to the sepulchre of all earthly hopes—all mundane enjoyments—all human
      interests!  
  Henceforth must that bright sun, which now steeped pinnacle, dome, tower, and river in a
      flood of golden lustre, visit him with its rays only through the grated window of a
      mad-house!  
  For the last time was he crossing that bridge—for the last time did he behold that crowded
      thoroughfare leading to the obelisk:—on the gay shops, the rapid vehicles, and the moving
      multitudes, was he also now gazing for the last time!  
    The last time!   Oh! those three monosyllables formed a terrible prelude—an awful
      introduction to an existence of monotony, gloom, and eternal confinement! Ah! could he recall
      the events of the last few weeks!—But, no—it was impossible:—the die was cast—the deed was
      done—and justice had settled his destiny!  
    The last time!   And he was so young—so very young to be compelled to murmur those
      words to himself. The sky was so bright—the air of the river was so refreshing—the scene
      viewed from the bridge was so attractive, that he could scarcely believe he was really doomed
      never to enjoy them more! And there was a band of music playing in the road—at the door of a
      public-house! What was the air? "  Britons never shall be slaves!  " Merciful God!—he was
      now a slave of the most abject description! The convict in the hulks knew that the day of
      release must come—the transported felon might enjoy the open air, and the glorious sun, and
      the cheering breeze:—but for   him  —for Henry Holford—eternal confinement within four
      walls!  
    The last time!   Oh! for the pleasures of life that were now to be abandoned for
      ever! For the last time did his eyes behold those play-bills in the shop windows—and he was so
      fond of the theatre! For the last time did he see that omnibus on its way to the Zoological
      Gardens—and he was so fond of those Gardens! Ah! it was a crushing—a stifling—a suffocating
      sensation to know that in a few minutes more huge doors, and grated windows, and formidable
      bolts and bars must separate him from that world which had so many attractions for one of his
      age!  
  Yes:—he now beheld those houses—those shops—those streets—those crowds—those
       vehicles—  for the last time  !  
  And now the cab has reached the iron gate in front of Bethlem Hospital.  
  There was a temporary delay while the porter opened that gate.  
  Holford looked hastily from the windows; and his lips were compressed as if to subdue his
      feelings.  
  Again the vehicle rolled onward, and in a few moments stopped at the entrance of the huge
      mad-house.  
  The Superintendent alighted: Holford was directed to follow; and Busby came close
      after him.  
  The great folding doors leading into the handsome hall of the establishment stood
      open:—Holford paused on the threshold for an instant—cast one rapid but longing look behind
       him—  a last look  —and then walked with firm steps to a waiting-room commanding a view
      of the grounds at the back of the building.  
  On the table lay a book in which visitors to the institution are compelled to enter their
      names and places of abode. Holford turned over the leaves—carelessly at first; but when he
      caught sight of several great names, he experienced a momentary glow of pride and triumph, as
      he murmured to himself, "  How many will come hither on purpose to feast their eyes on
       me!  "  
  Busby, who was one of the principal officers connected with the establishment, of which Sir
      Peter Laurie is the intelligent and justly-honoured President, left the room for a short time,
      Holford remaining in the charge of the Superintendent. When the first-mentioned functionary
      returned, it was to conduct the youth to his future place of abode.  
  Busby led the way through a long and well ventilated passage, in which about a dozen
      miserable-looking men were lounging about.  
  Holford cast a glance of ill-concealed terror upon their countenances, and read
         madness   in their wild eyes. But, to his astonishment, he beheld no horrifying and
      revolting sights,—no wretches writhing in chains—no maniacs crowning themselves with straws—no
      unhappy beings raging in the fury of insanity. He had hitherto imagined that madhouses were
      shocking places—and Bethlem worse than all: but distressing though the spectacle of human
      reason dethroned and cast down must ever be, it was still a great relief to the young man to
      find, upon inquiry of the officer, that there were no scenes throughout the vast establishment
      one tittle worse than that which he now beheld.  
  On one side of that long passage were the cells, or rather little rooms, in which the
      inmates of that department of the asylum slept, each being allowed a separate chamber. The
      beds were comfortable and scrupulously cleanly in appearance; and the officer informed Holford
      that the linen was changed very frequently.  
  From the other side of the passage, or wide corridor, opened the rooms in which the meals
      were served up; and here we may observe that the food allowed the inmates of Bethlem Hospital
      is both excellent in quality and abundant in quantity.  
  There was a very tall officer,—indeed, all the male keepers throughout the institution are
      tall, strong, and well-built men,—walking slowly up and down the passage of which we are
      speaking; and when any of the unhappy lunatics addressed him, he replied to them in a kind and
      conciliatory manner, or else good-naturedly humoured them by listening with apparent interest
      and attention to the lamentable outpourings of their erratic intellects.  
  It is delightful to turn from those descriptions of ill-disciplined prisons and of vicious
      or tyrannical institutions, which it has been our duty to record in this work,—it is
      delightful to turn from such pictures to an establishment which, though awakening many
      melancholy thoughts, nevertheless excites our admiration and demands our unbounded praise, as
      a just tribute to the benevolence, the wisdom, and the humanity which constitute the
      principles of its administration.  
  Oh! could the great—the philanthropic Pinel rise from the cold tomb and visit this
      institution of which we are speaking,—he would see ample proof to convince him that, while on
      earth, he had not lived nor toiled in vain.  
  Connected with the male department of Bethlem, there are a library and a billiard-room, for
      the use of those who are sufficiently sane to enjoy the mental pleasures of the one or the
      innocent recreation of the other. The books in the library are well selected: they consist
      chiefly of the works of travellers and voyagers, naval and military histories and biographies,
      and the leading cheap periodicals—such as   The London Journal  , Chambers's
         Information for the People  , Knight's   Penny Magazine  ,
      &amp;c.  
  Communicating with the female department of the asylum, is a music-room,—small, but
      elegantly fitted up, and affording a delightful means of amusement and solace to many of the
      inmates of that division of the building.  
  When these attentions to the comforts and even happiness,—for Bethlem Hospital exhibits many
      examples where "ignorance is bliss,"—of those who are doomed to dwell within its walls, are
      contrasted with the awful and soul-harrowing spectacle which its interior presented not very
      many years ago, it is impossible to feel otherwise than astonished and enraptured at the vast
      improvements which civilisation has introduced into the modern management of the insane!  
  But let us return to Henry Holford.  
  We left him threading the long passage which formed a portion of his way towards the
      criminal department of the hospital,—that department which was thenceforth to be his
      abode!  
  It may be readily imagined that he gazed anxiously and intently on all he saw,—that not a
      single object of such new, strange, and yet mournful interest to him escaped his
      observation.  
  Suddenly he beheld a man leaning against the wall, and staring at him as he passed in a wild
      and almost ferocious manner. There seemed to be something peculiar in that poor creature's
      garb:—Holford looked again—and that second glance made him shudder fearfully!  
  The man had on a strait-waistcoat,—a strong garment made of bed-ticking, and resembling a
      smock that was too small for him. The sleeves were   beneath  , instead of
         outside  , and were sewn to the waistcoat—a contrivance by which the arms of the
      unhappy wretch were held in a necessary restraint, but without the infliction of pain.  
  "Merciful God!" thought Holford, within himself; "if a residence within these walls should
      drive me really mad! Oh! if I should ever come to such an abject state as   that  !"  
  His miserable reflections were strangely interrupted.  
  One of the lunatics abruptly drew near and addressed him in a wild and incoherent tone.  
  "The nation is falling," he said; "and the worst of it is that it does not know that it is
      falling! It is going down as rapidly as it can; and I only can save it! Yes—the nation is
      falling—falling——"  
  the condition to which he himself must speedily come!  
  He was relieved from the farther importunities of the poor lunatic, by the sudden opening of
      a door, by which Busby admitted him into a narrow passage with two gratings, having a small
      space between them. The inner grating was at the bottom of a stone staircase, down which
      another keeper speedily came in obedience to a summons from Busby's lips.  
  This second keeper now took charge of Henry Holford, whom he conducted up the stairs to a
      gallery entered by a wicket in an iron grating, and divided by a similar defence into two
      compartments.  
  One of these compartments was much larger than the other, and contained many inmates and
      many rooms: the smaller division had but six chambers opening from it.  
  The entire gallery was, however, devoted to those persons who, having committed dread deeds,
      had been acquitted on the ground of insanity.  
  It was to the lesser compartment that Holford was assigned.  
  And now he was an inmate of the criminal division of Bethlem Hospital,—he who was as sane as
      his keeper, and who could, therefore, the more keenly feel, the more bitterly appreciate the
      dread circumstances of his present condition!  
  And who were his companions? Men that had perpetrated appalling deeds—horrible murders—in
      the aberration of their intellects!  
  Was this the triumph that he had achieved by his regicide attempt? had he earned that living
      tomb as the sacrifice to be paid for the infamous notoriety which he had acquired?  
  Oh! to return to his pot-boy existence—to wait on the vulgar and the low—to become once more
      a menial unto menials,—rather than stay in that terrible place!  
  Or else to be confined for life in a gaol where no presence of madness might tend to drive
      him mad also!—Yes—that were preferable—oh! far preferable to the soul-harrowing scene where
      man appeared more degraded and yet more formidable than the brutes!  
  Yes—yes: transportation—chains—the horrors of Norfolk Island,—any thing—any thing rather
      than immurement in the criminal wards of Bethlem!  
  Vain and useless regrets for the past!—futile and ineffective aspirations for the
      future!  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXI.   MR. GREENWOOD AND MR. VERNON.  
  It was in the middle of April, and about two o'clock in the afternoon, when the Honourable
      Gilbert Vernon knocked at the door of Mr. Greenwood's mansion in Spring Gardens.  
  He was immediately admitted by a footman in livery; and Filippo, the Italian valet, who was
      lounging in the hall at the moment, conducted him to the elegant drawing-room where the Member
      for Rottenborough was seated.  
  As soon as Filippo had retired, Mr. Vernon said in a somewhat impatient tone, as he fixed
      his large grey eyes in a scrutinising manner upon Greenwood's countenance, "May I request to
      know, with as little delay as possible, the reason that has induced you to demand this
      interview?"  
  "Sit down, Mr. Vernon," was the reply; "and listen to me calmly. In January last I met you
      accidentally in London; and you implored me not to breathe to a soul the fact that you were in
      this country."  
  "And if I had private—urgent motives for so acting, Mr. Greenwood," exclaimed Vernon, "I
      cannot suppose that it cost you any effort to maintain my secret."  
  "I set out by requesting you to listen to me attentively," returned the Member of
      Parliament, with the coolness of a man who knows he is dictating to one completely in his
      power.  
  "Proceed," said Vernon, biting his lip. "I will not again interrupt you: that
      is—unless——"  
  "I need scarcely state that I   did   keep your secret," continued Greenwood, without
      appearing to notice the hesitation with which his visitor gave the promise of attention. "You
      shortly afterwards called upon me to request a loan, which it was not convenient for me to
      advance at the moment. On that occasion you reiterated your request of secrecy relative to
      your presence in London. I renewed my pledge of silence—and I kept it; but I felt convinced
      that there were some cogent reasons which prompted that anxiety for concealment. Knowing much
      of your circumstances, I instituted inquiries in a certain quarter; and I learnt that Lord
      Ravensworth was dying—dying gradually—in a most mysterious manner—and of a disease that
      baffled all the skill of his physicians. I also ascertained that he was a slave to the use of
      a particular tobacco which you—his brother—had   kindly   sent him from the East!"  
  "Mr. Greenwood!" ejaculated Vernon, his face assuming so dark—so foreboding—so ferocious an
      expression that the Member of Parliament saw his dart had been levelled with the most accurate
      aim.  
  "Pray, listen, Mr. Vernon!" said Greenwood, playing with his watch-chain in a calm and quiet
      manner, as if he were discoursing upon the most indifferent topics. "Having made those
      discoveries,—which, indeed, were so generally known in the fashionable world, that the most
      simple inquiry induced any West-End gossip or newsmonger of the Clubs to descant upon them,—I
      began to view them in a particular light——"  
  "Mr. Greenwood," cried Vernon, starting from his seat, his countenance red with indignation,
      "do you pretend for one moment to insinuate that I—I, the brother of the late Lord
      Ravensworth——"  
  "I insinuate nothing," interrupted the Member, with the most provoking calmness: "but I will
      presently explain to you in broad terms, if you choose, the   facts   of which I am
         convinced  . I promise you that you will do well to hear me patiently."  
  "But is my character to suffer by the scandal of superannuated dowagers and the tattle of
      Club   quid nuncs  ?" demanded Vernon, rage imparting a terrible emphasis to
      his deep-toned voice.  
  "Your character has in no way suffered with those parties," answered Greenwood. "All that
      they relate is mere idle gossip, without an object or an aim.   They   have no suspicion:
      circumstances have aroused none in   their   minds. But when I heard all that they state
      as mere matter of conversation,   I  suspicions   were   aroused by the knowledge of your presence in England,
      and your anxiety to conceal that fact. And, if any thing were wanting to confirm those
      suspicions, the company in which I saw you the evening before last——"  
  "Ah! you saw me—with some one?" cried Vernon, hastily, and for the moment thrown off his
      guard.  
  "Yes: I saw you in conversation with a man of the most desperate character—a man who only
      last month escaped from the Middlesex House of Correction——"  
  "Then, in a word, Mr. Greenwood," interrupted Vernon, subduing his vexation and rage with a
      desperate mental effort, and resuming his seat, "how came you to discover my address in
      Stamford Street? and wherefore did you yesterday write to me to call on you to-day?"  
  "I overheard you say to Anthony Tidkins, '  The day after to-morrow I shall proceed to
       Ravensworth Hall, as if I had only just returned to England in consequence of letters sent to
       Beyrout to announce to me my brother's death; and you will join me in the capacity agreed
       upon  .' This I overheard you say, Mr. Vernon," continued Greenwood, fixing upon his
      visitor a glance of triumphant assurance; "and I then felt convinced that all my previous
      suspicions were well founded! I accordingly followed you when you separated from that
      individual who bears the odious name of   the Resurrection Man  ; and I traced you to
      your lodgings in Stamford Street."  
  "But for what purpose? with what view?" demanded Vernon, who saw that he was completely in
      Greenwood's power.  
  "I will come to that presently," was the calm reply. "You do not even give me credit for the
      delicacy with which I acted in bringing about this interview?"  
  "Delicacy!" repeated Vernon, his lip curling haughtily.  
  "Yes—delicacy," added Greenwood. "I knew not whether you passed at your lodging by your
      proper name; and therefore I would not call in person to inquire for you—fearful of betraying
      you."  
  "But I   do   pass there in my proper name," said Vernon; "for the old widow who keeps
      the house nursed me in my infancy, and I can rely upon her."  
  "Thank you for this admission, Mr. Vernon," rejoined Greenwood, complacently: "wherever
      reliance is to be placed, it is clear that there is something which might be betrayed. You
      have confirmed the strength of my previous convictions."  
  "Do not think that I made that admission unguardedly," said Vernon, nettled by Greenwood's
      manner. "No: I see that I am in your power—I admit it; and therefore I no longer attempted to
      mislead you."  
  "And you acted wisely," returned Greenwood. "It were far better for you to have me as a
      friend, than as an enemy. But, as I was ere now observing, it was to avoid the chance of
      betraying you that I sent my faithful valet, Filippo, to loiter about Stamford Street last
      evening, and slip my note into your hands. I described your person to him—and he executed my
      commission well."  
  "Then you have no inimical motive in seeking me out—in telling me all that you suspect?"
      said Vernon, looking suspiciously at Greenwood from beneath his dark brows.  
  "Not the slightest! How can I have such a motive?" exclaimed Greenwood. "A secret falls in
      my way—and I endeavour to profit by it. That is all."  
  "I scarcely comprehend you," observed the guilty man, his countenance again becoming
      overcast.  
  "In one word, Mr. Vernon," continued Greenwood, emphatically, "you come to England
      privately—upon some secret and mysterious errand. Still you pass by your own name at your
      lodging. That circumstance to superficial observers might seem to involve a strange want of
      precaution. To me it appears a portion of your plan, and the result of a judicious
      calculation. You return privately to England, I say—but you retain your own name at a place
      where you know it will not be betrayed unless circumstances should peremptorily demand its
      revelation; and then, should certain suspicions attach themselves to you, you would say boldly
      and feasibly also—'  It is true that I came to England to live quietly; but I attempted no
       disguise—I assumed no fictitious name  .' Ah! I can penetrate further into the human heart
      than most people: my experience of the world is of no common order."  
  "It would seem not," said Vernon: "especially as   you   also appear to know Anthony
      Tidkins, since you recognised him in my society the other night."  
  "There are few men at all notorious for their good or evil deeds, in this great city, who
      are unknown to me," observed Greenwood, calmly. "But permit me to continue. You are here—in
      this country, while really deemed to be abroad—under circumstances of no ordinary mystery;
      your brother smokes the tobacco you so kindly sent him—  and dies  ; your associate the
      Resurrection Man and you are now about to proceed to Ravensworth Hall—doubtless convinced that
      you have allowed a sufficient interval to elapse since your brother's death in the middle of
      February, to maintain the belief—where such belief suits your purposes—that you have only just
      had time to receive that intelligence in the East, and thence return to England. Can you deny
      one tittle of my most reasonable conjectures?"  
  "Greenwood, you are an extraordinary man," cried Vernon, affecting an ease which he did not
      feel and a sudden familiarity which he did not like. "Did I not before say that I would no
      longer attempt to mislead you? And I am willing to secure you as my friend."  
  "You now speak to the point. I candidly confess that I have told you all I suspect or know
      concerning yourself and your affairs," proceeded Greenwood; "and I am perfectly indifferent as
      to whether you choose to enlighten me farther, or not. Doubtless you have some defined course
      to pursue; or else the aid of the Resurrection Man would be unnecessary. But whether you hope
      to inherit largely under your deceased brother's will; or whether you can establish claims
      that may benefit you, in spite of the existence of the infant heir of Ravensworth, who was
      born a month ago——"  
  "Ah! the birth of that heir has well-nigh destroyed all my hopes!" interrupted Vernon, again
      rising from his seat. "But, tell me—what do you require at my hands? how am I to secure you as
      my friend? how am I to purchase your continued silence concerning all you have divined or now
      know?"  
  "With money," replied Greenwood: "with that article which buys every thing in this
      world!"  
  "Money!—I have none!" exclaimed Vernon. "But ere long——"  
  "Stay!" cried Greenwood: "tell me nothing of your schemes—nothing of your projects! I would
      rather remain in ignorance of the designs you may have in view; for, look you, Mr.
      Vernon,—though, between ourselves, I am not over nice in some matters, as you may probably
      suppose from the fact that Anthony Tidkins is known to me, as well as from my readiness to
      receive a bribe to ensure my secrecy in respect to your proceedings,—yet I do not care if I
      tell you that I shudder when I think of the lengths to which you have already gone—to which,
      perhaps, you are still prepared to go!"  
  "Was it to read me a moral lecture that you sought this interview?" demanded the Honourable
      Gilbert Vernon, with a contemptuous curl of the lip.  
  "No—far from that!" responded Greenwood. "And therefore enough of this style of discourse on
      my part. Still the observations were not unnecessary; for they serve to explain the relative
      positions in which we stand.   You   have already committed   one   fearful
      crime—and I know it: perhaps you meditate   another  —and I suspect it. But it is not for
      me to betray you—nor to reason with you:—I am not inclined to do either—provided you are
      grateful."  
  "Mr. Greenwood," said Vernon, speaking thickly between his set teeth, "you shall have a
      noble reward, if you religiously keep my secret."  
  "Such is the understanding at which I was desirous to arrive," observed Greenwood.  
  Gilbert Vernon then took his leave, in no very enviable state of mind under the conviction
      that his crimes had placed him so entirely in the power of such an extortioner as the Member
      for Rottenborough.  
  We must observe, ere we conclude the chapter, that Filippo, the Italian valet, had listened
      at the door of the drawing-room where this interview took place; and that not a syllable of
      the whole conversation was lost upon him.  
  In the evening Filippo obtained leave of absence for a few hours; and he availed himself of
      this license to repair to the villa in which Eliza Sydney dwelt.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXII.   SCENES AT RAVENSWORTH HALL.  
  It was about five o'clock in the afternoon of the same day on which the interview between
      George Montague Greenwood and the Honourable Gilbert Vernon took place, that a post-chaise
      advanced rapidly through Ravensworth Park, towards the Hall.  
  In a few minutes it stopped at the principal entrance of the mansion; and the Honourable Mr.
      Vernon alighted.  
  Quentin, who received him, made some inquiry in a respectful tone concerning his
      baggage.  
  "My valet will be here in the evening with my trunks," replied Vernon, abruptly.  
  Thus, without committing himself by a positive assertion, he led Quentin and the other
      domestics who were present to infer that he had only just arrived in England, and had left his
      servant in London to clear his baggage at the Custom-House.  
  Quentin bowed as he received that answer, and hastened to conduct Mr. Vernon to the
      drawing-room where Lady Ravensworth was seated.  
  The widow and her brother-in-law now met for the first time.  
  Vernon saw before him a young and beautiful woman, very pale, and with a countenance whose
      expression denoted much suffering—mental rather than physical. It was true that she had only
      lately become a mother,—that little more than a month had elapsed since she had given birth to
      an heir to the proud title and broad lands of Ravensworth;—and though the pallor of her face
      was the natural consequence of so recent an event, yet the physical languor which usually
      follows also, had given place to a nervousness of manner—a restlessness of body—a rapid
      wandering of the eyes—and an occasional firm compression of the lips, which indicated an
      uneasy mind.  
  Alas! upon that woman's soul lay a crime, heavy and oppressive as a weight of lead! The
      voice of the murdered Lydia was ever ringing in her ears;—the countenance of the murdered
      Lydia was ever staring her in the face—ghastly, distorted, and livid in appearance;—the form
      of the murdered Lydia was ever standing before her! At night the spectre placed itself between
      the opening of the curtains, and seemed more palpable—more horrible—more substantial in the
      hours of darkness.  
  No wonder, then, that her mind was restless—that her manner was nervous—and that her looks
      were wandering and unsettled!  
  But let us continue the thread of our narrative, taking it up at the moment when the
      Honourable Gilbert Vernon entered the apartment where Lady Ravensworth rose to receive
      him.  
  Extending her hand towards him, she said, "Welcome to this mansion: it is kind of you to
      answer so speedily in person the letters which it was my painful duty to address to you at
      Beyrout."  
  These words reassured Vernon on one important point: they proved that letters   had
       been   sent, conveying the intelligence of his brother's death.  
  "Accept my gratitude for the cordiality with which you receive me, sister—for such you will
      permit me to call you," answered Vernon; "and believe me——. But, good God! what ails you? what
      is the matter, Lady Ravensworth? You are ill—you——"  
  "That voice—that voice!" shrieked Adeline, staggering towards a chair, on which she sank
      helplessly. "Oh! Mr. Vernon——"  
  Gilbert was astounded at the affrighted manner and strange ejaculations of his
      sister-in-law;—but, seeing that she was on the point of fainting, he snatched from the table a
      small bottle of powerful scent, and handed it to her.  
  She inhaled the perfume, which acted as a slight restorative; but it was chiefly to the
      natural vigour of her mind, and to the imperious necessity in which dread circumstances had
      placed her of constantly maintaining as much command over herself as possible, that she was
      indebted for her almost immediate recovery from the state into which sudden surprise and
      profound alarm had thrown her.  
  in my countenance—my manner—or my voice that recalls to your mind painful
      reminiscences of my lately-departed brother:—it is natural that you should experience these
      feelings;—and I will leave you for the present."  
  "No, Mr. Vernon—stay!" exclaimed Adeline, in a tone which denoted the most painful
      excitement and agitation.  
  "Compose yourself, then: attempt not to pursue the conversation immediately," said Gilbert;
      "for as—with your permission—it is my intention to become your guest for a few weeks——"  
  "My guest!" repeated Adeline, with a shudder.  
  "Really, my dear sister," exclaimed Vernon, somewhat impatiently; "I am at a loss to
      understand the meaning of this excitement on your part. It is   not   caused by those
      reminiscences to which I ere now alluded: it begins to assume the aspect of aversion towards
      myself. Pardon me if I speak thus plainly; but if I be indeed hateful to you—if slanderous
      tongues have wronged me in your estimation—if even my own brother were cruel enough to malign
      me to his wife——"  
  "Mr. Vernon," interrupted Adeline, with a kind of feverish haste, "your conjectures will
      never lead you to discover the true cause of that agitation which I could not conquer, and
      which has offended you. The moment you addressed me, I was seized with a strange surprise—a
      wild alarm; and those feelings still influence me to some extent,—for methinks that I have
      heard your voice before!"  
  And she fixed her eyes in a penetrating manner upon his countenance.  
  "It may be," answered Vernon, quailing not beneath that look—for he had so desperate a part
      to play at Ravensworth Hall, that he knew how much depended upon a self-command and a
      collectedness of ideas that might avert suspicion,—"it may be, sister, that some years ago—ere
      I left England—we met in those circles in which we both move by right of birth and social
      position; and, although I do not remember that I ever had the pleasure of seeing you until
      now, still such a meeting may have occurred, and your mind may have retained certain
      impressions——"  
  "No, Mr. Vernon," again interrupted Adeline; "that surmise—even if correct—will not account
      for the cause of my agitation. To speak candidly, my impression was—and still   is  ,—and
      yet," she added, suddenly recollecting herself, "if that impression should be indeed
      erroneous, I should insult you—insult you grossly by explaining it——"  
  "Proceed, dear sister," said Vernon, gaining additional assurance, in proportion as Lady
      Ravensworth hesitated. "State to me candidly the impression which you received; and I will as
      candidly answer you."  
  "Yes—I   will   tell you the reason of that excitement which nearly overcame me," cried
      Adeline, whose suspicions were robbed of much of their strength by the calm and apparently
      open manner of her brother-in-law.  
  "And believe me when I declare that I shall readily pardon you, however injurious to myself
      may be the impression my voice has unfortunately made upon you. I can make ample allowances
      for one who has lately lost a beloved husband, and whose anxieties have been increased by the
      duties of maternity," added Gilbert.  
  "In one word, then, Mr. Vernon," continued Adeline, "it struck me that on a certain
      evening—in the month of February—I heard your voice,—yes, your voice in conversation with
      another person, in a ruined cottage which stands on the verge of the Ravensworth estate."  
  And, as she spoke, she again studied his countenance with the most earnest attention.  
  Desperate was the effort which the guilty man exerted over the painful excitement of feeling
      which this declaration produced within him:—in a moment he recalled to mind all the
      particulars of his meeting with the Resurrection Man at the ruined lodge; and he also
      remembered that he had lost on the same occasion the scrap of paper on which was written the
      address of his terrible agent in crime. But he   did   succeed in maintaining a calm
      exterior:—steadily he met the searching glance fixed upon him;—and though his heart beat with
      fearful emotions, not a muscle of his countenance betrayed the agitation that raged within his
      breast.  
  "My dear sister," said Vernon, in a cool and collected tone, "you are labouring under a most
      extraordinary delusion. Think you that there is not another voice in the world like mine?
      Believe me, had I been in this country at the time to which you allude, I should have only
      felt too much rejoiced to have paid my respects to you at an earlier period than the
      present."  
  Adeline listened to the deep tones of that voice which now rolled upon her ear like a
      perpetuation of the echoes of the one which she had heard in the ruins;—and she was still
      staggered at the resemblance! She also remembered that, in spite of the darkness of the night,
      she had on that occasion caught a glimpse of the tall and somewhat stout form which had passed
      near her, and which she knew not to have been that of the Resurrection Man, whom she had since
      seen:—and she was bewildered more and more.  
  But the calmness with which Vernon denied the circumstance of being in England at that
      time,—the steady, honest manner with which he declared that she was labouring under a delusion
      in identifying his voice with the one she had heard in the ruined lodge,—and the absence of
      any motive which she could conjecture for his maintaining his presence in this country (even
      were he really here at the period alluded to) so profoundly secret,—these arguments staggered
      her still more than even her contrary suspicions.  
  On his side, Vernon was congratulating himself on the evident embarrassment of his
      sister-in-law; and he felt convinced that the sound of his voice alone—and nothing that had
      passed between him and Tidkins in the ruined cottage—had produced an impression upon her.  
  "You will then forgive me for a momentary suspicion that was injurious to you?" said
      Adeline, after a short pause, and now adopting the only course open to her in the matter.  
  "I have come to England to form your acquaintance—your friendship,—to see if I can be of
      service to you in the position in which my brother's death and the birth of a son have placed
      you,—to aid you in the settlement of any affairs which may require the interference of a
      relative," answered Vernon; "for these purposes have I come—and not to vex you by taking
      umbrage at impressions which, however painful to me, are pardonable on the side of one in your
      situation."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Then let us banish from our conversation the disagreeable topic which has hitherto
      engrossed it," exclaimed Adeline. "It is my duty to give you some information in respect to
      certain matters; and the family solicitor will, when you may choose to call upon him, enter
      into more elaborate details. You are aware that your poor brother died ere his child was born.
      But so far back as last November his lordship made a will the provisions of which were so
      prudentially arranged as to apply to the welfare of either male or female progeny, whichever
      might be accorded by Providence. Two distinguished noblemen are now my son's guardians, under
      that will, and consequently the trustees of the entailed estate."  
  Vernon bit his lip with vexation.  
  "In reference to his personal property," continued Adeline, "my lamented husband has left me
      sole executrix."  
  A dark cloud passed over the countenance of the brother-in-law.  
  "But, by a special clause in his will," added Lady Ravensworth, who did not observe those
      manifestations of feeling on the part of Gilbert Vernon, "your deceased brother has ensured in
      your behalf double the amount of that pension which has hitherto been paid to you."  
  "Thus my brother deemed me unworthy to be the guardian of his child;—he also considered it
      prudent to exclude me from any share in the duty of carrying his wishes into effect;—and he
      has provided me with a pittance of one thousand pounds a-year."  
  In spite of the necessity of maintaining the most complete self-command over himself, in
      order to carry out his plans successfully, Gilbert Vernon could not avoid those bitter
      observations which showed how deeply he was galled at the total want of confidence displayed
      in respect to him by his deceased brother.  
  Adeline felt that the point was a delicate one, and made no reply.  
  Fortunately for them both, each being much embarrassed by the present topic of discourse, a
      servant now entered to announce that dinner was served up.  
  Gilbert Vernon and Lady Ravensworth accordingly repaired to the dining-room.  
  We may here observe that Lord Dunstable and Mr. Graham had left the mansion some
      weeks previously, the young nobleman having recovered from the wound which he had received in
      the duel.  
  When dinner was over, Vernon and his sister-in-law returned to the drawing-room, where
      coffee was served up. Adeline directed that the infant heir—then scarcely more than a month
      old—should be brought in, Gilbert having hypocritically expressed a desire to see his
      newly-born nephew. The request was granted:—the nurse made her appearance with the babe; and
      Vernon passed upon it the usual flattering encomiums which are so welcome to a mother's
      ears.  
  But there was no falsehood in those praises,—however insincere might be the manner in which
      they were uttered:—for the infant was a remarkably fine one, and appeared sweetly interesting
      as it slept in the nurse's arms.  
  Vernon flattered the mother's vanity so adroitly, by distant but by no means unintelligible
      allusions to her own good looks, as he spoke of the child, that she began to consider him a
      far more agreeable man than she had at first supposed he could possibly prove to be.  
  Shortly after the nurse had retired with the child, Quentin entered the drawing-room, and,
      addressing himself to Vernon, said, "Your valet has just arrived, sir, with your baggage."  
  "If her ladyship will permit me," returned Gilbert, "I will withdraw for a few moments to
      give my servant some instructions."  
  "I am about to retire to my own chamber, Mr. Vernon," observed Adeline, "and shall leave you
      in undisturbed possession of this apartment. Your valet can therefore wait upon you here."  
  Quentin withdrew for the purpose of sending Mr. Vernon's domestic to the drawing-room; and
      Lady Ravensworth, having remained for a few moments to finish her coffee, also retired.  
  On the landing she heard hasty steps approaching and almost immediately afterwards Quentin
      appeared, followed by the Honourable Gilbert Vernon's valet.  
  They passed Lady Ravensworth as she was about to ascend the stairs leading from the
      brilliantly lighted landing to the floor above.  
  But—O horror!—was it possible?—did her eyes deceive her?—was she the sport of a terrible
      illusion?  
  No:—a second glance at the countenance of the false valet was sufficient to confirm the
      appalling suspicion which the first look in that direction had suddenly excited within
      her.  
  For   his   was a countenance which, once seen—if only for a moment—could never be
      forgotten;—and in spite of the new suit of complete black which he wore,—in spite of the care
      that had been bestowed upon his person,—in spite of the pains which a Globe Town barber had
      devoted to his usually matted hair—it was impossible not to recognise in this individual so
      disguised, the instrument of Adeline's own crime—the terrible Resurrection Man!  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXIII.   A WELCOME FRIEND.  
  As if struck by a flash of lightning, Adeline fell insensible upon the stairs.  
  When she awoke, she found herself in bed,—not in the chamber where the murder of Lydia
      Hutchinson had been perpetrated: no—never since that fatal night had Lady Ravensworth dared to
      sleep in her boudoir;—but she had adopted as her own apartment, one quite at the opposite end
      of the building.  
  Yet, vain—oh! passing vain were the endeavours of the murderess to escape from the phantom
      of her victim:—had she fled to the uttermost parts of the earth—had she buried herself amidst
      the pathless forests of America, or made her abode on the eternal ice of the northern
      pole,—even thither would the spectre have pursued her!  
  It was midnight when Lady Ravensworth awoke in her chamber, after having fainted upon the
      stairs.  
  An ejaculation of terror escaped her lips—for she instantly recollected all that had
      passed.  
  The curtains were immediately drawn aside; and a charming female countenance, but totally
      unknown to Adeline, beamed upon her.  
  "Tranquillise yourself, lady," said the stranger: "it is a friend who watches by your
      side."  
  "A friend!" repeated Adeline, with a profound sigh: "have I indeed a friend? Oh! no—no: I am
      surrounded by enemies!"  
  And covering her face with her hands, she burst into an agony of tears.  
  "Pray compose yourself, Lady Ravensworth," said the stranger, in so sweet and musical a tone
      that it carried to the heart conviction of friendly intentions.  
  "And who are you that thus feel an interest in one so woe-begone as I?" asked Adeline,
      relieved by her tears.  
  Then she turned her still streaming eyes towards the stranger who spoke in so kind, so
      soothing, so convincing a manner; and she beheld, by the mellowed light of the lamps that
      burnt in the chamber, a female of lovely person, but clad in deep black, and wearing the
      peculiar cap which bespeaks the widow.  
  The respectability of this garb combined with the softness of the lady's tone and manner,
      and the sweet amiability of her fine countenance, to produce the most favourable impression
      upon the wretched Adeline,—wretched alike through her own misdeeds and those of others!  
  "You ask me who I am," answered the stranger:—"rather seek to know wherefore I am here!
      Compose yourself, and I will explain the latter mystery in a few words. This evening I
      received tidings—from an authority which I cannot doubt, but which I dare not name—of a
      fearful conspiracy that is in progress against you,—not only against   you  , but I fear
      also against your child."  
  "Oh! heavens—I begin to understand it all!" shrieked Lady Ravensworth, the presence of
      Gilbert Vernon and Anthony Tidkins in that mansion, and evidently leagued together, recurring
      to her mind. "But how did you hear this! how did you learn the terrible tidings which other
      circumstances proclaim so fatally to be, alas! too true?"  
  character—one of whom has every thing to gain by the death of your child."  
  "Oh! you allude to Gilbert Vernon—my brother-in-law!" exclaimed Adeline. "He is already in
      this house—accompanied by his valet, who——"  
  She checked herself ere she uttered another word that might have led her new friend to
      marvel how she could possibly have obtained any previous insight into the character of that
      attendant upon her brother-in-law.  
  "And that valet, by all I have heard," said the strange lady, "is a man of the most
      fiend-like soul—the most remorseless disposition,—a man capable of every atrocity—every
      crime,—and who is so ready to accomplish any enormity for gain, that were there another
      Saviour to betray, he would become another Judas."  
  "Oh! what a picture you are drawing!" cried Lady Ravensworth, with a cold shudder—for she
      knew how much of that appalling description was true!  
  "It is not to intimidate you, that I am thus candid," was the reply; "but simply to convince
      you in what danger you are placed, and how deeply you need the assistance of a sincere
      friend."  
  "And that friend—" said Adeline.  
  "Is myself," answered the stranger. "It is true, I am but a woman—a poor, weak woman, as the
      lords of the creation style our sex;—but I possess the heart to aid you—the spirit to defend
      you—and the courage to dare every peril in your behalf!"  
  "Excellent woman!—heaven must have sent you to me!" cried Adeline, reassured by these words;
      and, as she spoke, she caught her new friend's hand and pressed it enthusiastically to her
      lips. "But, your name!—tell me your name!—that I may address you in terms of affection, and
      hereafter speak of you in those of gratitude."  
  "Call me by any name you will," was the reply; "but ask me no more concerning myself. In
      aiding you, I must impose the conditions upon which I offer to befriend you! I have no selfish
      motive:—my own social position places me above all interested views. No:—through the purest
      feelings of humanity have I sought you. Listen to me a few moments in patience. This evening I
      heard the principal details of the plot contrived against your peace: I learnt enough to prove
      that you have enemies capable of the very worst deeds to secure their own ends. I resolved
      upon hastening to your aid—of offering myself as your companion, your friend, until the peril
      be averted. I arrived at Ravensworth Hall at about nine o'clock this evening, and requested an
      interview with you. I was told that you had just been seized with a fit, and conveyed to your
      chamber. I replied that I was well known to you—that I had even come in pursuance of an
      invitation received from you—and that my presence was most opportune since you were so
      suddenly taken ill. Your lady's-maid was summoned, and, in consequence of my representations,
      I was admitted to your chamber. You had partially recovered, and had sunk into a sound sleep.
      I assured the maid that she need not remain with you, as I would watch by your side. This is
      the tale I have told—an innocent falsehood to ensure a good aim. If you wish me to remain with
      you, it will be for you to repeat to your servants the same story of our previous
      acquaintance. This will be necessary to account to Vernon for my presence in the mansion, and
      for the terms of inseparable friendship on which we must appear to be together. For from this
      night I shall not lose sight of yourself or your child, until the danger that threatens that
      innocent infant be averted. As for my name—I dare not allow it to be known here; for Vernon is
      acquainted with a certain individual to whom that name is not strange, and who, were he to
      learn that I am here, would perhaps suspect that I had some ulterior motive. Indeed, it was a
      conversation between your brother-in-law and that individual to whom I allude, which was
      overheard by a person devoted to my interests, and which discourse betrayed enough to show
      that one terrible deed had already been committed by Vernon, and that he was meditating
      another."  
  "One terrible deed has already been committed!" exclaimed Adeline, in affright: "to what can
      you allude!"  
  "Alas!" replied Eliza Sydney,—for she was the generous-hearted unknown,—"did the lamentable
      death of Lord Ravensworth excite no suspicions in your mind?"  
  "Oh! now I see it all!" cried Adeline, clasping her hands together, and speaking with
      hysterical vehemence: "Gilbert Vernon   was   in England—it   was   his voice that I
      heard in the ruins;—and it was he who sent the fatal and poisoned weed which carried my
      husband to the tomb! Monster—monster that you are, Gilbert Vernon!"  
  And she sank back exhausted upon the pillow, from which she had raised herself as she
      screamed forth that last accusation.  
  Several minutes elapsed ere she grew calm enough to explain to Eliza the meaning of her
      exclamation relative to the voice in the ruins.  
  "You see how well arranged have been all Vernon's plans," observed Eliza; "for, in the
      conversation with the individual to whom I have already alluded, he admitted that he had been
      some time in England. Oh! there can be no doubt that he was awaiting the effect of the
      poisoned weed;—for I read in the newspapers the account of your husband's strange and
      mysterious death after a few months of atrophy, and which fatal event was alleged to have been
      hastened by his passionate attachment to a peculiar oriental tobacco. It is now for you to
      remain retired and tranquil—to keep your child constantly with you—and to allow me to act as I
      shall think fit. In a short time I hope to be enabled to collect a chain of evidence that may
      establish Vernon's guilt. At present there is strong suspicion—but no proof—that he caused the
      death of his brother."  
  "But I will not stay here—in this lonely house," cried Adeline: "I will seek safety with my
      father!"  
  "And think you that change of dwelling will screen your child from the intrigues—the
      infernal intrigues and plots of a man who found means, while at a distance, to murder his
      brother with a fatal poison?" demanded Eliza. "No—he would accomplish his purpose, wherever
      you might conceal the heir of Ravensworth! But if we can obtain proofs of his past crime or of
      his present intention—if we can so contrive that we may place him within the reach of
      justice,—then—and only then will there be safety for your child. If you seek refuge with your
      relatives, he will see that he is suspected; and his schemes will only be prosecuted with the
      more caution."  
  in all things," said Adeline: "but, in the name of heaven! devise means to bring
      these dangers and perplexities to a speedy issue."  
  "Trust to me, Lady Ravensworth," returned Eliza. "In the first place, is there still left in
      the house any of that oriental weed whose effects were so fatal upon your husband?"  
  "There is," answered Adeline; "and I think I divine your motive for asking the question. You
      would have the tobacco analysed and tested by a skilful chemist? That step was taken shortly
      after my lamented husband's death, by the desire of Mr. Graham—a medical gentleman who
      attended him in his last moments. Not that any suspicion against Gilbert Vernon had then
      arisen: no—it was curiosity and a love of science which prompted Mr. Graham thus to act."  
  "And the result?" said Eliza, interrogatively.  
  "No trace of a deleterious substance could be discovered," was the answer.  
  "Providence will open another road to the discovery of that man's guilt," observed Eliza.
      "But you must now compose yourself to sleep: the night is far advanced—and you need rest."  
  "Rest!—oh! not for me!" said Adeline, with a dreadful shudder, as she thought of the
      murdered Lydia Hutchinson.  
  But Eliza Sydney did not comprehend that Lady Ravensworth had any source of affliction save
      the machinations of her enemies.  
  In the morning, Eliza wrote the following letter to Filippo Dorsenni, Greenwood's
      valet:—  
  
  Ravensworth Hall, April 16th, 1841.  
  "You will see by the superscription that I am on the spot where danger menaces an innocent
       babe of a month old. Vernon and Anthony Tidkins are both here; but Lady Ravensworth has
       placed herself entirely under my guidance.  
  "I wish you to undertake the three following commissions as speedily as possible.  
  "The first is to form an acquaintance with the landlady of the house in Stamford Street
       where Gilbert Vernon lodged, and endeavour to glean from her not only how long he lived in
       her dwelling, but any other particulars concerning him she may be willing to communicate.
       This task you must execute with great precaution, so that in case Vernon should call upon her
       she may not inform him that you have actually sought information at her hands. Should she be
       skilfully drawn into gossiping discourse upon the subject, she would not mention to Vernon
       that she had breathed a word in connexion with him or his affairs.  
  "In the second place, you must endeavour to discover the abode of the beautiful Georgian,
       Malkhatoun, whom, as you informed me some months ago—shortly after my arrival in England—Mr.
       Greenwood made over to his friend the Honourable Major Dapper.  
  "In the third place you must find some trusty person who will immediately set off for
       Beyrout. Fortunately, an extra Overland Mail departs to-morrow evening. The instructions of
       the individual whom you may thus employ are contained in the enclosed letter. Doubtless,
       amongst the few Castelcicalans who are now resident in London, you are acquainted with one
       who will undertake this mission, for the expenses of which I forward you a cheque upon my
       bankers.  
  "You can write to me to report the progress of these three commissions."    
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXIV.   A MIDNIGHT SCENE OF MYSTERY.  
  "Well," said Quentin to his fellow-domestics, as they were sitting at breakfast in the
      servants' hall, "the Honourable Mr. Vernon is by no means the most agreeable gentleman that
      ever set foot in this house; but his valet beats any thing I ever saw in the same shape."  
  "Did you ever see such a countenance?" exclaimed one of the maids. "I am sure it was not for
      his good looks that Mr. Vernon could have chosen him."  
  "He is just the kind of person that I should not like to meet in a lane in a dark night,"
      observed another member of the female branch of dependants.  
  "He certainly cannot help his looks," said Quentin: "but heaven knows they tell amazingly
      against him."  
  "And what I think somewhat extraordinary," remarked the butler, "is that just now I found
      him in my pantry, balancing the silver spoons at the end of his finger, as if to tell the
      weight of them. So I quietly informed him that my pantry was sacred; and he took himself off
      with a very ill grace."  
  "Did you notice him last night, after supper," said the first maid who had spoken, "when we
      got talking about the disappearance of Lydia Hutchinson with my lady's casket of jewels, how
      eagerly he joined in the conversation, and how many questions he asked?"  
  "Yes, to be sure I did," returned another female servant: "he was as curious about the
      matter as if Lydia was his own sister, or daughter, or sweetheart. He wanted to learn how long
      ago it happened—how we knew that she had run away with the casket—and all about it; and then,
      when we told him what we thought of the matter, he cross-questioned us as if he was a counsel
      and we were witnesses at a trial. But I wonder who this widow is that came last night, and
      seems so intimate with my lady."  
  "She's a very genteel person," said Quentin; "and seems to know how to treat servants, as if
      she had a great many of her own. You can always tell the true breed of people by the way they
      behave to servants."  
  "I'm decidedly of your opinion, Mr. Quentin," observed a footman. "A true gentleman or true
      lady always says '  Thank you  ,' when you hand them any thing at table, and so on. But
      it seems that my lady is very unwell this morning; for she and her new friend had their
      breakfast in my lady's own chamber."  
  "And the nurse and child are to remain altogether in my lady's private suite of apartments,"
      added one of the females. "Does any one know the name of my lady's friend?"  
  "Mrs. Beaufort, I think the lady's-maid said," replied Quentin. "But here comes James
      White."  
  And James White did accordingly enter the servants' hall at that moment in the person of the
      Resurrection Man; for by the former name was he now pleased to pass at Ravensworth Hall.  
  "Been taking a walk, Mr. White?" said Quentin, as Tidkins seated himself at the
      breakfast-table.  
  "Yes—just looking about the grounds a little," was the answer. "Handsome building this—fine
      park—beautiful gardens."  
  "It   is   a handsome building, Mr. White," said Quentin; "and as commodious as it is
      handsome."  
  "Very commodious," returned the Resurrection Man. "Nice snug little private door, too, at
      the southern end," he added with a strange leer.  
  decamped by, when she ran off with my lady's jewels," exclaimed one of the
      maids.  
  "Ah—indeed!" said the Resurrection Man, carelessly. "And wasn't her ladyship cut up at the
      loss of the jewels?"  
  "Somewhat so," was the female servant's answer. "But my lady is too rich to care very much
      about that."  
  "And was there no blue-bot—police-case, I mean, made of it?" asked Tidkins.  
  "None," replied the maid. "My lady possesses too good a heart to wish to punish even those
      who most wrong her."  
  "A very excellent trait in her character," observed the Resurrection Man, as he deliberately
      made terrific inroads upon the bread and butter and cold meat. "Was her ladyship at the Hall
      when that young woman bolted?"  
  "No: she had gone to London early in the morning of the very same day. But there's my lady's
      bell."  
  And the female servant who had been thus conversing with the Resurrection Man, hastened to
      answer the summons.  
  In a few minutes she returned, saying, "Mr. Quentin, you are wanted in the little parlour
      opposite my lady's room."  
  The valet repaired to the apartment named, where Eliza Sydney was waiting for him.  
  Motioning him to close the door, she said in a low but earnest tone, "Lady Ravensworth
      informs me that you were devoted to your late master: doubtless you are equally well disposed
      towards his unprotected and almost friendless wife?"  
  "If there is any way, madam, in which my fidelity can be put to the test, I shall be well
      pleased," was the reply.  
  "In a word, then," continued Eliza, "your mistress and the infant heir are in danger; and it
      behoves you to aid me in defeating the machinations of their enemies. After what I have now
      said, are your suspicions in no way excited?"  
  "I confess, madam," answered Quentin, "that the presence of a certain person in this
      house——"  
  "You allude to the Honourable Mr. Vernon," exclaimed Eliza; "and you are right! He has
      domiciled himself here without invitation—without apparent motive; and he is attended by an
      individual capable of any atrocity."  
  "Mr. Vernon's valet?" said Quentin, interrogatively.  
  "The same," was the reply. "But I dare not explain myself more fully at present. What I now
      require of you is to watch all the proceedings of Mr. Vernon and his attendant, and report to
      me whatever you may think worthy of observation."  
  "I will not fail to do so, madam," returned Quentin.  
  "And now I have to request you to give me a small portion of the tobacco which the late Lord
      Ravensworth was accustomed to use," continued Eliza; "and the remainder you must carefully
      conceal in some secure place, as it may some day be required for inspection elsewhere."  
  "Your directions shall all be implicitly attended to," said Quentin. "But might I be
      permitted to ask whether you are aware, madam, that the tobacco was sent to Lord Ravensworth
      by Mr. Vernon?"  
  "It is my knowledge of that fact which induced me to give those instructions concerning the
       weed—  the fatal weed  ," replied Eliza, significantly.  
  "Ah! madam—I also have had my suspicions on that head!" exclaimed Quentin, who perfectly
      understood the lady's meaning. "I hinted those suspicions to the medical gentleman who
      attended my lord in his last moments; and he had the tobacco analysed by a skilful
      chemist;—but the result did not turn out as I had expected."  
  "Lady Ravensworth has already mentioned this fact to me," said Eliza: "I have, however,
      conceived a means of submitting the weed to a better test. But of this and other subjects I
      will speak to you more fully hereafter."  
  Quentin withdrew to fetch a small sample of the tobacco, with which he shortly re-appeared.
      Eliza renewed her injunctions to watch the movements of Vernon and his valet; and then
      hastened to rejoin Lady Ravensworth.  
  The day passed without the occurrence of any thing worth relating; but in the evening one or
      two little circumstances in the conduct of Mr. Vernon's valet struck the now watchful Quentin
      as being somewhat peculiar.  
  In the first place, Tidkins sought an excuse to lounge into the kitchen at a moment when the
      servants belonging to that department of the household were temporarily absent; and Quentin,
      who followed him unperceived, was not a little astonished when he saw the Resurrection Man
      hastily conceal three large meat-hooks about his person.  
  There were some silver forks and spoons lying on the table; but these Tidkins did not touch.
      It was consequently apparent to Quentin that Mr. Vernon's valet did not self-appropriate the
      meat-hooks for the sake of their paltry value: it was clear that he required them for some
      particular purpose.  
  "What, in the name of common sense! can he possibly want with meat-hooks?" was the question
      which the astonished Quentin put to himself.  
  Conjecture was vain; but the incident determined him to continue to watch Mr. Vernon's valet
      very closely.  
  When the hour for retiring to rest arrived, a female servant offered Tidkins a chamber
      candlestick; but he requested to be provided with a lantern, saying with a carelessness which
      Quentin perceived to be affected, "The truth is, I'm fond of reading in bed; and as a candle
      is dangerous, I prefer a lantern."  
  Quentin alone suspected the truth of this statement. He, however, said nothing. The lantern
      was given to Tidkins; and the servants separated for the night.  
  It so happened that the bed-room allotted to the Resurrection Man was in the same passage as
      that tenanted by Quentin. Suspecting that Tidkins required the lantern for some purpose to be
      executed that night, Quentin crept along the passage, and peeped through the key-hole of the
      other's chamber.  
  He was enabled to command a good view of the interior of that room, the key not being in the
      lock; and he beheld Tidkins busily engaged in fastening the meat-hooks to a stout stick about
      a foot and a half long. The Resurrection Man next took the cord which had secured his trunk,
      and tied one end round the middle of the stick. He then wound the cord round the stick,
      apparently to render this singular apparatus more conveniently portable.  
  This being done, Tidkins put off his suit of bran new black, and dressed himself in a more
      common garb, which he took from his trunk.  
  When he had thus changed his clothes, he secured the stick, with the cord and
      meat-hooks, about his person.  
  "This is most extraordinary!" thought Quentin to himself. "He is evidently going out. But
      what is he about to do? what can all this mean?"  
  The valet's bewilderment was increased when he beheld the Resurrection Man take a pair of
      pistols from his trunk, deliberately charge them with powder and ball, and then consign them
      to his pocket.  
  "What   can   he mean?" was the question which Quentin repeated to himself a dozen
      times in a minute.  
  The bell on the roof of the mansion now proclaimed the hour of midnight; and Tidkins, having
      suddenly extinguished the candle in the lantern, made a motion as if he were about to leave
      the room.  
  Quentin accordingly retreated a few yards up the passage, which was quite dark.  
  Almost immediately afterwards, he heard the door of Tidkins' room open cautiously: then it
      was closed again, and the sharp click of a key turning in a lock followed.  
  Tidkins was now stealing noiselessly down the passage, little suspecting that any one was
      occupied in dogging him. He descended the stairs, gained the servants' offices, and passed out
      of the mansion by a back door.  
  But Quentin was on his track.  
  The night was almost as dark as pitch; and the valet had the greatest difficulty in
      following the steps of the Resurrection Man without approaching him so closely as to risk the
      chance of being overheard. From time to time Tidkins stopped—evidently to listen; and then
      Quentin stood perfectly still also. So cautious indeed was the latter in his task of dogging
      the Resurrection Man, that this individual, keen as were his ears, and piercing his eyes,
      neither heard nor saw any thing to excite a suspicion that he was watched.  
  By degrees, black as was the night, Quentin's eyes became accustomed to that almost profound
      obscurity; and by the time the Resurrection Man had traversed the gardens, and clambered over
      the railings which separated those grounds from the open fields, the valet could
      distinguish—only just distinguish—a dark form moving forward before him.  
  "If I can thus obtain a glimpse of him," thought Quentin, "he can in the same manner catch
      sight of me the first time he turns round."  
  And the valet was accordingly compelled to slacken his pace until he could no longer
      distinguish the form of him whom he was pursuing.  
  But as the Resurrection Man, deeming himself quite secure, did not take the trouble to walk
      lightly along the hard path which ran through the fields, Quentin was now enabled to follow
      without difficulty the sounds of his footsteps.  
  All of a sudden these sounds ceased; and Quentin stopped short. In another minute, however,
      he heard the low rustling tread of feet walking rapidly over the grass; and thus he recovered
      the trail which was so abruptly interrupted.  
  The Resurrection Man had turned out of the beaten path, and was pursuing his way diagonally
      across the field.  
  Quentin followed him with the utmost caution: and in a few moments there was a bright flash
      in the corner of the field, the cause of which the valet was at no loss to comprehend.  
  Tidkins had lighted a lucifer-match—doubtless to assure himself that he was in the
      particular spot which he sought.  
  Quentin, to whom every square yard of the estate was well known, immediately remembered that
      there was a pond in the corner of the field where Tidkins had thus stopped; and close by was a
      thick hedge. The valet accordingly made a short and rapid circuit in order to gain the stile
      leading into the adjacent field: then, creeping carefully along the bushes, he arrived in a
      few moments behind that precise portion of the hedge which overlooked the pond.  
  The night was so dark that he could not follow with his eyes the exact movements of the
      Resurrection Man. He was, however, enabled to distinguish his form on the opposite bank of the
      pond; and not many moments after he had taken his post behind the hedge, there was a sudden
      splash in the water, as of some object thrown into it. Then the Resurrection Man moved slowly
      along the bank; and it instantly struck Quentin that he was dragging the pond.  
  This idea explained the purpose of the apparatus formed by the hooks, the stout stick, and
      the cord:—but for what could he be dragging?  
  The valet shuddered as this question occurred to him;—for the nature of the apparatus, the
      secresy of the whole proceeding, and the bad opinion which Eliza Sydney's hints had induced
      him to form of him whom he, however, only knew as James White,—these circumstances combined to
      fill Quentin's mind with a terrible suspicion that Tidkins was dragging for a dead body.  
  The Resurrection Man drew up his drag with a terrible oath, uttered aloud, and expressive of
      disappointment.  
  "And yet this must be the spot!" he added, as he disentangled the hooks from the cord. "I
      went over the whole grounds this morning—and I could swear it was here that——"  
  The conclusion of the sentence was muttered to himself, and therefore remained unheard by
      the valet.  
  The drag was thrown into the water a second time; and, at the expiration of a few moments,
      Tidkins gave utterance to an exclamation expressive of satisfaction.  
  Then he retreated slowly from the edge of the pond, as if dragging a heavy object out of the
      water.  
  From behind the hedge Quentin strained his eyes, with mingled feelings of curiosity and
      terror, to scrutinise as narrowly as possible the real meaning of this strange and mysterious
      proceeding. At length there was a strong gurgling of the water; and in another moment a large
      dark object was moving slowly and heavily up the steep bank.  
  A cold shudder crept over the valet's frame; for that object bore the appearance of a
      corpse!  
  He would have taken to flight—he would have escaped from the contemplation of such a strange
      and appalling scene—he would have hastened back to the mansion to raise an alarm;—but vague
      fears—ineffable horror bound him as it were to the spot—paralysed his limbs—and compelled him
      to remain a spectator of the dark proceeding.  
  The object was safely landed upon the bank: there was a sharp crack as of a match—a small
      blue flame suddenly appeared—and then Tidkins lighted the candle in his lantern.  
  This being done, he approached the object upon the bank;—and in another moment
      all Quentin's doubts were cleared up—for the light of the lantern now fell upon the body of a
      female!  
  He closed his eyes instinctively—and his brain was seized with a sudden dizziness. But,
      mastering his feelings, he again looked towards the mysterious and fearful drama which was
      being enacted on the opposite bank of the pond.  
  The light was again extinguished; and Tidkins was stooping over the corpse.  
  Suddenly an exclamation of joy escaped his lips; but Quentin was unable to divine the
      cause.  
  Another minute elapsed; and the Resurrection Man rolled the body back again into the water.
      There was a second splash a moment afterwards: it was evidently the drag which Tidkins had
      thrown away, its services being no longer required by him.  
  Then he retreated with rapid step from the bank of the pond; and Quentin, scarcely able to
      subdue the terror which had taken possession of him, retraced his way along the
      hedge,—determined, in spite of his feelings, to watch the Resurrection Man to the end——if more
      there were of this strange midnight drama yet to come.  
  Having hastily performed the short circuit that was necessary to bring him back into the
      field through which Tidkins was now proceeding, Quentin shortly came within sight of that
      individual's dark form, moving rapidly along the beaten path.  
  Near the railings which bounded the gardens, there were several groups of large trees; and
      at the foot of one of them Tidkins halted. Stooping down, he appeared to be busily employed
      for some minutes in digging up the earth. Quentin approached as nearly as he could without
      incurring the risk of discovery; and the motions of the Resurrection Man convinced him that he
      was indeed engaged in burying something at the foot of the tree.  
  This task being accomplished, Tidkins clambered over the palings, and pursued his way
      through the gardens towards the back gate of the Hall.  
  Quentin remained behind—his first impulse being to examine the spot where the Resurrection
      Man had been digging. But a second thought made him hesitate; and, after a few moments'
      reflection, he determined to wait until he had reported the whole of this night's mysterious
      proceedings to the lady whom he only knew as Mrs. Beaufort, and at whose instance he had been
      induced to watch the proceedings of Mr. Vernon's valet.  
  He accordingly pursued his way back to the mansion. But as the Resurrection Man had bolted
      the back door inside, Quentin was compelled to gain an entry through one of the windows of the
      servants' offices. This he effected with safety, and noiselessly returned to his own
      chamber.  
  But he closed not his eyes in slumber throughout the remainder of that night; for all he had
      seen haunted his imagination like a spectre.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXV.   PLOTS AND COUNTERPLOTS.  
  In the morning Eliza Sydney received the following letter from Filippo Dorsenni:—  
  "Your orders have been punctually obeyed.  
  "I have already visited the landlady in Stamford Street, under pretence of being acquainted
      with a gentleman who wishes to take lodgings in that street; and I have ascertained that her
         last lodger  —who can be none other than Mr. Vernon—resided with her three or four
      months. Consequently he   has   been in England during that period.  
  "In the second place, I have discovered the address of the beautiful Georgian; and can
      communicate with her so soon as I receive your instructions to that effect.  
  "Thirdly, I have despatched a faithful person to Beyrout; and he will return to England the
      moment he shall have gleaned the information specified in your instructions."  
  To this letter Eliza despatched an immediate answer, praising her faithful adherent for the
      skill and despatch with which he had executed her orders, and giving him certain instructions
      in respect to Malkhatoun.  
  She then repaired to the parlour opposite Lady Ravensworth's own apartment; for Quentin had
      already sent a private message by one of the female servants, intimating that he was anxious
      to speak to her without delay.  
  When they met in the parlour, Eliza heard with profound astonishment the extraordinary
      narrative which the valet had to relate to her.  
  "Some deed of mystery and crime has been doubtless perpetrated," observed Eliza; "but it
      cannot possibly bear any reference to the atrocious plot which Gilbert Vernon is meditating
      against the happiness of his sister-in-law and the life of her child. I will now tell you that
      the villain who passes in this house as James White is in reality a certain Anthony Tidkins,
      known amongst his associates in crime as the Resurrection Man."  
  "I have heard of him, madam," said Quentin, with a shudder. "And, by the by—was it not this
      same wretch who lately escaped in so extraordinary a manner from the Middlesex House of
      Correction? The affair was in all the newspapers."  
  "He is the same person," answered Eliza.  
  "Oh! madam," cried Quentin, somewhat reproachfully; "it is not for me to dictate to you—but
      since you have discovered who this man is, how could you permit him to remain for one single
      day at large?—why should he be allowed to take his place at the same table with honest
      people?"  
  "I admit that such society must be abhorrent in the extreme," answered Eliza, mildly but
      firmly: "I also acknowledge that for a short space I am depriving justice of its due. Listen,
      however, to my reasons. Gilbert Vernon is a man of so desperate a character that he will
      hesitate at no crime which will make him master of the lands and title of Ravensworth. I have
      every reason to believe that he caused the death of his brother: I have equally good grounds
      for suspecting him of an intention to murder his nephew. As speedily as circumstances will
      permit am I adopting measures to collect evidence that will place his guilt beyond all doubt.
      But until that evidence be obtained, we must excite in his mind no suspicion that there are
      counter-schemes in progress. Were we to do so, it is impossible to imagine what desperate deed
      he might immediately risk in furtherance of his aims."  
  "But suspicions are already so strong against him, madam," observed Quentin, "that a
      magistrate would grant a warrant for his apprehension."  
  Eliza, "he would soon be at large again to pursue his detestable machinations.
      No, Quentin: your good sense must show you that it is better to take no decisive step until
      our evidence shall be so complete that it will serve two objects—namely, to punish him for the
      crime he has already committed, and thereby release your lady and her son from any future
      danger at his hands."  
  "I submit to your superior judgment, madam," said Quentin. "But in respect to this Anthony
      Tidkins—this James White—this villain who is now quartered upon us——"  
  "Until you ere now communicated to me those strange and horrifying incidents of last night,"
      interrupted Eliza, "my intention was to leave that miscreant also unmolested, for fear that by
      handing him over to justice Gilbert Vernon might be led to perceive that he also was
      suspected. But the narrative of last night's adventure involves so serious a matter that I am
      for a moment at a loss what course to pursue. In any case it will be better to ascertain the
      nature of the object which the villain buried at the foot of the tree; and probably we shall
      thereby discover some clue to the elucidation of this mystery. In the meantime, I conjure you
      to keep your lips sealed in respect to all these topics of fearful interest. Lady Ravensworth
      is in so nervous and agitated a state, that I shall not acquaint her with the incidents to
      which you were last night a spectator, until she be better able to support the terrors of so
      frightful a narrative. But to-night, Quentin, you must visit the spot where the villain buried
      some object in the earth: you will ascertain what that object is;—and we will then decide upon
      the proper course which we ought to pursue."  
  Quentin could not help admiring the strength of mind, the sagacity, and the calmness which
      Eliza Sydney displayed in her self-imposed task of countermining the dark plots of the
      Honourable Gilbert Vernon. Though but a servant, he was himself shrewd, intelligent, and
      well-informed; and he was not one of those obstinate men who refuse to acknowledge to
      themselves the superiority of a female mind, where such superiority really exists. He
      accordingly expressed his readiness to follow Eliza's counsel in all things connected with
      their present business; and he also promised that he would not by his conduct towards Tidkins
      excite in that individual's mind any idea that he was known or suspected.  
  He and Eliza Sydney then separated.  
  We must pause for a moment to explain the system of argument upon which this lady's present
      proceedings were based.  
  "If," she said to herself, "Tidkins be delivered up to justice, it is possible that he will
      not turn upon his employer Vernon, who might readily account for having such a villain in his
      service by declaring that he was entirely ignorant of his true character when he engaged him
      as a valet. Again, were Vernon immediately accused of the murder of his brother, the evidence
      would be slight unless it were proved not only that the tobacco was really poisoned, but also
      that it was the same which Vernon had sent to Lord Ravensworth. For the only positive ground
      of suspicion which can as yet be adduced against him, is that he has been some time in England
      while he represented himself to have been still dwelling in the East. But this circumstance
      might be disposed of by some feasible excuse on his part, and would also be inefficient unless
      coupled with more conclusive evidence. In a month I shall probably be able to collect all the
      testimony I require; and it is not likely that Vernon will immediately attempt the life of the
      infant heir, as such a deed following so closely upon the death of the late lord would of
      itself afford matter of serious inquiry and arouse suspicions against him. It is therefore
      necessary to remain tranquil for the present, until the day arrives when the machinations of
      Gilbert Vernon may be crushed for ever by the same blow that shall punish him for his past
      crimes."  
  Ravensworth Hall was now the scene of plot and counter-plot,—of fears, suspicions, and a
      variety of conflicting passions.  
  While Quentin and Eliza Sydney were engaged in the conversation above related, the following
      discourse took place between the Resurrection Man and Gilbert Vernon in the bed-chamber of the
      latter.  
  "I don't think I shall relish this monotonous kind of life long," said Tidkins. "Bustle and
      activity are what I like. Besides, I can't say that I'm altogether without fears; for that
      description of my person which was published after my escape from Coldbath Fields, was so
      infernally correct that even this white neckcloth, and bran new suit of black, and the
      cropping of my hair, and so on, haven't changed me enough to make all safe."  
  "Nonsense!" exclaimed Vernon, impatiently. "Who would think of looking for you at
      Ravensworth Hall? who would suspect that the valet of one in my station is what he really
      is?"  
  "But where is the use of putting the thing off for a month or six weeks?" asked Tidkins.  
  "Because it would appear strange—too strange that such an event should occur only a few days
      after my arrival at the Hall," answered Vernon. "You must be guided by me in this respect. The
      scheme to get rid of the brat is your own—and a good one it is too. Nothing could be better.
      But you really must allow me to have my own way as to the time when it is to be put into
      execution."  
  "Well, well," growled Tidkins: "be it so. For my part, however, I don't see how it is to be
      put into execution at all, if Lady Ravensworth remains cooped up with the brat in her own
      room, as she did all yesterday, and seems disposed to do again to-day, by what the servants
      said at breakfast just now."  
  "That certainly embarrasses me," observed Vernon. "It was my intention, as I before informed
      you, to remain here for a few weeks and ingratiate myself as much as possible with my
      sister-in-law, and get into the habit of fondling the child. Faugh! it almost makes me sick to
      think that I must take the snivelling brat from its nurse, and dandle it about for
      half-an-hour at a time, so as to save appearances at least. But, as you say, Lady Ravensworth
      seems determined that I shall have no chance of playing the amiable at all; for she keeps her
      room with that widow friend of hers who came so cursed inopportunely. It cannot be that
      Adeline suspects me? And yet the strange way in which she received me—the impression my voice
      made upon her——"  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "Which proves that she really was concealed in those ruins, for some purpose or another,
      when we met there," interrupted the Resurrection Man.  
  "But I am convinced that nothing which then passed between us, gave her any hint concerning
      our projects," said Vernon; "for when I denied that it was my voice which she had heard, she
      afterwards became convinced that the mere coincidence of a resemblance of tones had deceived
      her. Had any other circumstance tended to corroborate her first impression, she would not have
      hesitated to mention it. But to return to what we were ere now talking of. If my sister-in-law
      should persist in keeping her own chamber, I shall request an interview with her; and the
      result will teach me how to act."  
  "And suppose she really is afraid of you,—suppose she suddenly leaves the Hall, and proceeds
      to town,—or suppose she sends for her friends and relations to keep her company here,"
      exclaimed Tidkins; "how will you act then?"  
  "She will not quit the Hall," replied Vernon. "Decency compels her to live in retirement at
      the country-seat during the first few months of her widowhood; and Lord and Lady Rossville,
      her parents, are kept in London by the parliamentary duties of his lordship."  
  "I think I know a way to make her leave her room," said Tidkins, with some little
      hesitation, and after a few moments' pause.  
  "You!" cried Vernon, turning shortly round, and surveying his ill-favoured accomplice with
      astonishment.  
  "Yes—me," answered the Resurrection Man, coolly. "If I could only speak to her alone for a
      few minutes, I'm very much mistaken if I can't do what I say."  
  "Impossible—ridiculous!" ejaculated Vernon.  
  "I say that it's neither impossible or ridiculous," rejoined Tidkins, angrily.  
  "But how will you manage it? what will you say to her?" demanded Vernon, more and more
      surprised; for he knew that the Resurrection Man was not accustomed to boast without the power
      of performing.  
  I always act on it. Now, all I have to say is that if you will procure me a
      private meeting with your sister-in-law, I'll engage that she shall leave her room—unless she
      really is very ill—and take her seat at the dinner-table to-day."  
  "But this is so extraordinary," cried Vernon, "that unless you know something wherewith to
      over-awe her—and let me tell you that she is not a woman to be frightened by empty
      menace——"  
  "Leave all that to me, Mr. Vernon," said the Resurrection Man, coolly. "Accept my proposal,
      or refuse it, as you like;—but don't question me."  
  "You are really a wonderful man, Tidkins," observed Gilbert, slowly; "and you are not in the
      habit of talking for talking's sake. If you feel convinced that you will succeed—if you do not
      incur the risk of spoiling all——"  
  "I am not such a fool as that," interrupted the other, gruffly.  
  "Then I will endeavour to bring about the interview which you desire," said Vernon.  
  And, without farther hesitation—though not entirely without misgiving—he sate down to pen a
      brief note to his sister-in-law, requesting an interview at her leisure.  
  An hour afterwards Lady Ravensworth proceeded alone to one of the drawing-rooms.  
  Eliza Sydney had offered no objection to this interview which Mr. Vernon had demanded with
      his sister-in-law: on the contrary, she was afraid that his suspicions would be excited were
      it refused.  
  On her part, Adeline was far from feeling annoyed at the request contained in Vernon's
      letter; for she had been a prey to the most acute suspense ever since she had recognised the
      Resurrection Man in her brother-in-law's valet.  
  Her guilty conscience led her at one moment to believe that Tidkins was certain to discover
      that Ravensworth Hall was the scene of the mysterious murder in which he was   her  
      instrument; and at another time she persuaded herself that her plans had been too prudently
      adopted to admit of such an elucidation.  
  "Oh! if that dreadful man should obtain a clue to the real truth," she thought, as she
      repaired to the drawing-room, "how completely should I be in his power! Nay, more—he might
      communicate his discovery to Vernon; and then——but I cannot dwell upon so terrible an idea! My
      God! in what torture do I exist! O Lydia Hutchinson, thy vengeance pursues me even from the
      other world! And now I am about to meet my brother-in-law again! Well—it is better that this
      interview should take place at once. It must relieve me from much terrible uncertainty—much
      agonising suspense. If Tidkins have already discovered the dread secret, I shall know the
      worst   now  ;—and if he have not already discovered it, there is but little chance that
      he ever will. Let me then summon all my courage to my aid: a few minutes more, and my fate
      must be decided! Either I shall find myself in the power of Vernon and   that horrible
       man  ; or my secret is safe! And if it be still safe—safe it shall remain;—for   he  
      could only recognise me by my voice—and I will take care never to speak in   his  
      presence! No—no: sooner than incur the risk of thus betraying my secret, I will shut myself up
      for ever in my own apartment—or I will fly far away from this house which has so many fearful
      recollections for me!"  
  Thus musing, Lady Ravensworth entered the drawing-room.  
  Her countenance was almost as white as marble; and this pallor was enhanced by the widow's
      weeds which she wore.  
  We must here observe that there was, as is usual in the well-furnished rooms of the mansions
      of the rich, a screen in one corner of the apartment; and on the same side were large
      folding-doors opening into an ante-chamber, which communicated with the passage and also with
      the suite of saloons intended for grand occasions.  
  The moment Adeline entered the apartment, Gilbert Vernon, who was already there, rose from a
      sofa and hastened to meet her.  
  "My dear sister," he said, taking her hand with an air of great friendship, "I was truly
      sorry to hear that you were so indisposed yesterday as to be compelled to keep your chamber.
      May I hope that you are better to-day?"  
  "I am very far from well, Mr. Vernon," answered Adeline coldly, as she withdrew her hand
      somewhat hastily; for, deeply steeped in guilt as she herself was, she shrank from the touch
      of one whom she looked upon as the murderer of her husband and the deadly foe of her infant
      child.  
  "You seem to avoid me purposely, Adeline," said Gilbert, fixing his large grey eyes upon her
      in a searching manner, though she averted her looks from him: "have I offended you? or is my
      presence in this house irksome to you?"  
  "I must candidly confess," replied Lady Ravensworth, "that I remained at the Hall, after the
      sad loss which I lately sustained, with a view to avoid society—to dwell in retirement;—and
      neither decency nor my own inclination allow me to receive company with any degree of
      pleasure."  
  "Your ladyship, then, looks upon the brother of your late husband as a stranger—a mere
      guest?" said Vernon, biting his lip. "And yet you have no relative who is more anxious to
      serve you—more ready to become your true friend——"  
  "My lamented husband left his affairs in such a position as to preclude the necessity of any
      intervention save on the part of the trustees," observed Adeline, gathering courage when she
      perceived that her brother-in-law was rather inclined to conciliate than to menace.  
  "Then, if such be your sentiments, Adeline," said Gilbert, "I need intrude upon your
      presence no longer."  
  Thus speaking, he hastily retreated from the room through the same door by which Lady
      Ravensworth had entered it.  
  "My secret is safe!" murmured Adeline, clasping her hands joyfully together, the moment
      Vernon had disappeared;—and she also was about to quit the apartment, when the screen was
      suddenly thrown back.  
  She cast a glance of apprehension towards the spot whence the noise had emanated; and an
      ejaculation of horror escaped her lips.  
  The Resurrection Man stood before her!  
  "Don't be frightened, my lady," said Tidkins, advancing towards her with a smirking smile on
      his cadaverous countenance: "I shan't eat you!"  
  subdue her terror so as ward off, if possible, the danger which now menaced
      her.  
  "Lord, ma'am, don't be angry with me for just presenting my obscure self to your notice,"
      said Tidkins, with a horrible chuckle. "You can't pretend not to know me, after all that's
      taken place between us?"  
  "Know you!—I know only that you are Mr. Vernon's valet, and that he shall chastise you for
      this insolence," cried Adeline, astonished at her own effrontery: but her case was so truly
      desperate!  
  "I always thought you was the cleverest woman I ever came near," said the Resurrection Man;
      "but I also pride myself on being as sharp a fellow as here and there one. If I was on the
      rack I could swear to your voice although it is feigned, and though when you came to my crib
      you kept your face out of sight. But your voice—your height—your manner,—every thing convinces
      me that I and Lady Ravensworth are old friends."  
  "You are mistaken, sir—grossly mistaken," cried Adeline, almost wildly. "I do not know you—I
      never saw you before you set foot in this house the other night."  
  "And then you recognised me so well that you fainted on the stairs," returned Tidkins,
      maliciously. "But if you think to put me off with denials like this, I can soon show you the
      contrary; for, though I was blindfolded when you brought me to the Hall on a certain night in
      the middle of February last, I am not quite such a fool as to have forgot the gardens we
      passed through—the little door leading to the private staircase at the south end of the
      building—and the very position of the room where the mischief was done. Why, bless you, ma'am,
      I began to suspect all about it the very first hour I was in this house, when the servants got
      talking of a certain Lydia Hutchinson who disappeared just about that time."  
  "You are speaking of matters wholly incomprehensible to me," said Lady Ravensworth, whose
      tone and countenance, however, strangely belied the words which she uttered. "It is true that
      a servant of mine, named Lydia Hutchinson, decamped in the month of February last; and if you
      know any thing concerning her——"  
  "By Satan!" cried the Resurrection Man, stamping his foot with impatience; "this is too
      much! Do you pretend that it was not Lydia Hutchinson whom you hired me to throttle in your
      own chamber?"  
  "Monster!" screamed Adeline, starting from her seat, and speaking in her proper tone, being
      now completely thrown off her guard: "of what would you accuse me?"  
  And her countenance, which expressed all the worst and most furious passions of her soul,
      contrasted strangely with her garb of widowhood.  
  "Of nothing more than I accuse myself," answered the Resurrection Man, brutally. "But if you
      want any other proof of what I say, come along with me, and I'll show you the very pond in
      which the body of Lydia Hutchinson is rotting. Ah! I found out that too, during my rambles
      yesterday!"  
  Adeline's cheeks were flushed with rage when he began to answer her last question; but as he
      went on, all the colour forsook them; and, pale—pale as a corpse, she fell back again upon the
      sofa.  
  "There! I knew I should bring it home to you," said the Resurrection Man, coolly surveying
      the condition to which he had reduced the guilty woman. "But don't be frightened—I'm not going
      to blab, for my own sake. I haven't even told your brother-in-law about this business. Tony
      Tidkins never betrays his employers."  
  Lady Ravensworth cast a rapid glance at his countenance as he uttered these words; and
      catching at the assurance which they conveyed, she said in a low and hollow tone, "You have
      not really acquainted Mr. Vernon with all this?"  
  "Not a syllable of it!" cried Tidkins. "Why should I? he wouldn't pay me the more for
      betraying you!"  
  "Then how came you here during my interview with him?" demanded Adeline, almost suffocated
      by painful emotions. "Was he not privy to your presence?"  
  "He was, my lady," answered Tidkins, in a less familiar tone than before: "but, for all
      that, he doesn't know what business I had with your ladyship."  
  "This is false—you are deceiving me!" exclaimed Adeline, with hysterical impatience.  
  "Not a whit of it, ma'am: I'm too independent to deceive any body," rejoined the
      Resurrection Man. "In plain terms, your brother-in-law has taken a fancy to this place, and
      means to stay here for a few weeks."  
  "He is very kind!" said Adeline, bitterly.  
  "But he doesn't like sitting down to breakfast and dinner by himself, and to lounge about in
      the drawing-room without a soul to speak to," continued the Resurrection Man; "for a petticoat
      is the natural ornament of a drawing-room. So what he wants is a little more of your society;
      and as he didn't exactly know how to obtain his wishes in this respect, I offered to use my
      interest with your ladyship."  
  "  Your   interest!" repeated Lady Ravensworth, disdainfully.  
  "Yes, ma'am—and that can't be small either," returned Tidkins, with a leer. "Now all you
      have to do is to show yourself more in the drawing and dining-rooms—and on my part I engage
      not to breathe a word of the Lydia Hutchinson affair to Mr. Vernon."  
  "And can you for a moment think that I shall submit to be dictated to in this manner?" cried
      Adeline, again becoming flushed with indignation.  
  "I do indeed think it, ma'am," answered Tidkins, coolly; "and what is more, I mean it,
      too—or, as sure as you're there, I'll drag up the body of Lydia Hutchinson, as I did last
      night!"  
  "O heavens!" shrieked Adeline: "what do you mean?"  
  "I mean, my lady, that when I heard the servants talking about the loss of your
      jewel-casket, I began to suspect that you had sacrificed it to create an idea that Lydia
      Hutchinson had bolted with it," answered Tidkins; "and I thought it just probable that I
      should find it in the pond. So last night I fished up the dead body——"  
  "Enough! enough!" cried Adeline, wildly: "Oh! this is too much!—you will drive me mad!"  
  "Not a bit of it, ma'am," returned Tidkins. "A clever and strong-minded lady like you
      shouldn't give way in this manner. All I wanted was the casket; and——"  
  "And what?" said Adeline, speaking in a tone as if she were suffocating.  
  "And I got it," was the answer. "But I rolled the body back again into the pond; and there
      it'll stay—unless you force me to drag it up once more, and bring it to the Hall."  
  "No: never—never!" screamed Lady Ravensworth. "Were you to perpetrate such a horrible deed,
      I would die that moment—I would stab myself to the heart—or I would leap from this window on
      the stones beneath! Beware, dreadful man—or you will drive me mad! But if you require gold—if
      you need money, speak: let me purchase your immediate departure from this house."  
  "That does not suit my book, ma'am," answered Tidkins. "Here I must remain while it suits
      the pleasure of my master," he added, with a low chuckling laugh.  
  "And what business keeps your master here? what wickedness does he meditate? why does he
      force his presence upon me?" cried Adeline, rapidly.  
  "I don't know any thing about that," answered the Resurrection Man. "All I have to say can
      be summed up in a word: leave your own chamber and act as becomes the mistress of the house.
      Preside at your own table—this very day too;—or, by Satan! ma'am, I'll take a stroll by the
      pond in the evening, and then run back to the Hall with a cry that I have seen a human hand
      appear above the surface!"  
  Having thus expressed his appalling menaces, the Resurrection Man hurried from the
      apartment.  
  Lady Ravensworth pressed her hands to her brow, murmuring, "O heavens! I shall go mad—I
      shall go mad!"  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXVI.   WOMAN AS SHE OUGHT TO BE.  
  A quarter of an hour after the interview between Lady Ravensworth and the Resurrection Man,
      Eliza Sydney repaired to the little parlour before mentioned, in compliance with a message
      which had been conveyed to her from Quentin.  
  The moment she entered that room she was struck by the ghastly and alarming appearance of
      the valet.  
  He was pacing the apartment with agitated steps; his face was as pale as death—his eyes
      rolled wildly in their sockets—and his entire aspect was that of a man who had just seen some
      terrible spectacle, or heard some appalling revelation.  
  "In heaven's name, what is the cause of this excitement?" asked Eliza, advancing towards the
      valet, after she had carefully closed the door.  
  "Oh! madam—oh! Mrs. Beaufort," exclaimed Quentin, clasping his hands together through the
      intenseness of his mental anguish; "by playing the part of your spy I have learnt a most
      dreadful secret! Merciful God! this house has become the head-quarters of diabolical crime:
      its very atmosphere is tainted with the foul breath of murderers;—destruction lurks within its
      walls. Oh! accursed house, of which not one stone should be left upon another!"  
  "Quentin, you alarm me!" cried Eliza. "Speak—explain yourself! What mean these strange
      expressions?"  
  "Madam," said the valet, drawing close to her, and speaking in a low and hollow tone, "have
      you heard of a certain Lydia Hutchinson, who disappeared from this dwelling about two months
      ago?"  
  "Yes: the nurse was this morning telling me something about that event," answered Eliza;
      "but Lady Ravensworth hastened to change the conversation."  
  "And no wonder, madam—no wonder!" observed Quentin. "Oh! that I should still remain in the
      service of one who has perpetrated such a deed!"  
  "Will you explain yourself, Quentin?" cried Eliza, somewhat impatiently. "I see that you
      have learnt a dreadful secret: but wherefore keep me thus in suspense?"  
  "Pardon me, madam—forgive me," said Quentin, "I ought not to trifle with you! But, ah!
      madam, what will you think—how will you act, when you learn that she for whom you are so
      generously striving to combat the wicked plots of Gilbert Vernon,—that Lady Ravensworth, in a
      word, is—is——"  
  "Is what?" said Eliza, hastily.  
  "A murderess!" returned Quentin, shuddering from head to foot as he uttered the appalling
      word.  
  "Just heaven! what do I hear?" exclaimed Eliza, the colour forsaking her cheeks. "Oh! no—no:
      it cannot be! Recall that assertion, Quentin; for you are labouring under some strange
      delusion!"  
  "Would that I were, madam," said the valet, in a mournful tone; "but, alas! I heard too
      much—and that much too plainly—to entertain a doubt! Yes, Mrs. Beaufort—that lady to whom you
      have devoted yourself, is the murderess of poor Lydia Hutchinson!"  
  "Oh! this is indeed a house of crime, Quentin!" exclaimed Eliza Sydney, now greatly excited.
      "But tell me how you made this fearful discovery!"  
  "I will endeavour to collect my thoughts sufficiently to explain it all, madam," said the
      valet. "You must know, that about two hours ago, the miscreant Tidkins brought me a note,
      written by his master, and to be sent up to my lady. To this note a verbal message was
      returned that my lady would see Mr. Vernon in an hour in the drawing-room."  
  "Yes—that interview took place with my entire concurrence," observed Eliza.  
  at length she acknowledged it—she admitted it!"  
  "Miserable woman that she is!" exclaimed Eliza. "Oh! this accounts for her sleepless
      nights—her constant nervousness—her strange looks!"  
  "And it is the corpse of Lydia Hutchinson, madam," added Quentin, "which was last night
      dragged from the pond by that fiend who was hired by my lady to murder her!"  
  The valet then detailed at length all the conversation which had taken place between the
      Resurrection Man and Lady Ravensworth, and which explained wherefore Tidkins had fished up the
      body of the murdered woman.  
  "It is therefore clear," said Eliza, horror-struck at all she heard, "that it is the lost
      casket which Tidkins buried at the foot of the tree."  
  "Doubtless, madam. But it now remains for   you   to decide what course you will
      pursue," continued Quentin: "as for   me  , my mind is made up—I shall depart within an
      hour from this abode of crime!"  
  "Such will not be my conduct," said Eliza, firmly. "Dreadful as is the guilt of Lady
      Ravensworth, I cannot find it in my heart to abandon her to her enemies. She must have
      received some fearful provocation to have been driven thus to rid herself of a servant whom,
      under ordinary circumstances, she might have abruptly discharged."  
  "I think that I can penetrate into the mystery of this crime, madam," observed Quentin. "Her
      ladyship admitted a certain Colonel Cholmondeley to her chamber; and this intrigue was known
      to Lydia Hutchinson."  
  "Oh! crime upon crime!" ejaculated Eliza Sydney, with a shudder. "Yet will I not abandon
      this very guilty and very miserable woman! No:—for the sake of her babe will I still aid her
      in defeating her enemies! And this duty becomes the more imperious, inasmuch as if Gilbert
      Vernon should be made acquainted with her enormities—if the miscreant Tidkins should betray
      her to his master—he would obtain a hold upon her that must further all his vile schemes."  
  "And will you remain, madam, in the midst of these murderers?" asked Quentin, profoundly
      surprised at the resolution of Eliza Sydney:—"will you remain in the same house with Vernon,
      the murderer of his brother,—with Tidkins, who lives by murder,—and with Lady Ravensworth the
      murderess of Lydia Hutchinson? Can you continue to dwell in such horrible society?"  
  "As a matter of duty—yes," answered Eliza. "Were the infant heir of Ravensworth abandoned to
      the designs of those dreadful men, his life would not be worth a month's purchase; and his
      mother would not dare to publish the foul deed, even were he murdered before her face!"  
  "The protection of that child is indeed a duty," said Quentin, in a musing manner; "and my
      lord was always a good and kind master to me! I have eaten his bread for many years—I have
      amassed in his service enough to keep me in my old age! Madam," added the valet, turning
      abruptly round towards Eliza, "your noble example shall not be lost upon me! I will remain
      here—I will obey your instructions—for you are a lady of whose confidence a humble individual
      like myself should feel proud!"  
  How powerful is the moral influence of a virtuous woman, performing painful but solemn,
      though self-imposed duties! And, oh! had that man, who now felt and acknowledged this
      influence,—had he known that he stood in the presence of one whose brow had been adorned with
      a diadem, and who still possessed a ducal title, although she used it not,—had he known all
      this, he would have fallen at her feet, in homage to one so great and good!  
  "Your resolution, Quentin, to remain here as the protector of your lamented master's heir,
      does you honour," exclaimed Eliza. "And, as you are indeed deserving of my confidence, I will
      acquaint you with the course which I shall adopt towards Lady Ravensworth. For the sake of her
      family—for the sake of the memory of her deceased husband—for the sake of her child, I will
      spare her that exposure, and those fearful consequences of such exposure, which justice seems
      to demand in expiation of a crime so foul as hers. Never—never could I consent to be the means
      of sending one of my own sex to a scaffold! No: I will gently break to her my knowledge of her
      guilt; I will enjoin her to pray often—long—and fervently to that Almighty Power which can
      show mercy to those who truly repent, be they never so deeply stained with crime; and I will
      endeavour to conduct her mind to that state which shall atone for the great sin which lies so
      heavy on her soul!"  
  "Ah! madam," exclaimed Quentin, in unfeigned admiration of this excellent lady; "were there
      more like you in this world, there would be far less need for prisons, criminal judges, and
      public executioners!"  
  "Reformation is better than punishment, Quentin," said Eliza, impressively. "But let us now
      separate. I need not enjoin you to the strictest silence in respect to the awful discovery of
      this morning."  
  "Oh! madam, tell me how to act, and I would not for worlds deviate from your instructions,"
      cried the valet.  
  "Thank you for this assurance," said Eliza. "Before we separate, let me ask if you will
      assist in the performance of a painful but solemn duty which circumstances impose upon
      us?"  
  "Speak, madam," returned Quentin: "I almost think that I can anticipate your
      explanation."  
  "The corpse of the murdered woman must not be allowed to remain in that pond," said Eliza,
      in a low, but emphatic tone.  
  "I had divined your thoughts, madam," observed the valet. "To-night I will bury it—painful,
      horrible though that duty be."  
  "And I will assist you in the sad task," returned Eliza. "Nay—offer no objection: I am
      determined. To-night, at eleven o'clock, I will meet you in the garden near the wicket leading
      into the fields. You must be provided with the necessary implements for the purpose. In
      respect to the casket of jewels, leave it where it is—leave it to that dreadful man who will
      not long remain at large to dishonour human nature with his atrocities; for he and his present
      master will fall together—and the same knell shall ring for them both!"  
  "I understand you, madam," said Quentin. "That casket could never return to the possession
      of Lady Ravensworth, with safety to herself."  
  The valet then retired; and Eliza hurried back to Adeline's apartments.  
  There a most painful—a most distressing scene took place.  
  remote chamber of the same suite; and when Eliza was alone with Adeline, she
      broke to the miserable lady her knowledge of the fearful crime which had put an end to the
      existence of Lydia Hutchinson.  
  And, oh! how gently—how delicately—and in what a purely Christian spirit of charity, did
      Eliza perform this most difficult—this most melancholy duty!  
  It was not as an avenger, menacing the thunders of the law, that Eliza spoke: it was not as
      one prepared to deliver up the criminal to justice, that she addressed herself to Lady
      Ravensworth. No:—it was as a true disciple of Him with whom is vengeance as well as mercy,
      that she communed with Adeline: and this wretched woman found, to her astonishment, that she
      possessed a friend who would pray with her, solace her, and conceal her guilt, instead of a
      being prepared to expose, to disgrace, and to abandon her upon the plea of performing a duty
      which every one owes to society!  
  Then, when Lady Ravensworth was sufficiently composed—when the first terrific shock was
      over,—she related, truly and minutely, her entire history: she revealed to Eliza all those
      particulars of her connexion with Lydia Hutchinson, which are known to the reader; she
      concealed nothing—for the unparalleled generosity of Eliza's mind and conduct aroused in
      Adeline's heart all the better feelings of her sex and nature.  
  Though the crime of murder is so horrible that there exists for it scarcely the shadow of
      extenuation,—still when the case of Lady Ravensworth was calmly considered,—when it was
      remembered how she had been goaded to madness and desperation by the conduct of Lydia
      Hutchinson,—when all the circumstances that united at the time to cause her reason to totter
      upon its seat, were dispassionately viewed,—even the well-ordered mind of Eliza Sydney was
      induced to admit that, if ever such shadow of extenuation did exist, it was in this most
      lamentable episode in the history of the human race.  
  And, oh! with what feelings of profound—ineffable gratitude did Adeline throw herself at the
      feet of that angel who seemed to have been sent from above to teach her that there was hope
      for even the greatest criminal, and that "  there is more joy in heaven over the repentance
       of one sinner than over ninety-nine just persons who need no repentance!  "  
  "You ask me not to leave you—not to abandon you," said Eliza: "such an idea never entered my
      mind. Where the plague rages, there should the physician be; and if the physician fly away
      through fear of infection, he is unworthy to exercise an honourable calling. For it is not the
      healthy who require his services. And if the rich man offer alms to those who are as wealthy
      as himself, his charity becomes a mere mockery, because it is only offered where he knows it
      will be refused. No—it is the abodes of misery which he should visit; and it is amongst those
      who need his assistance that he should dispense his bounty. I fear not, Adeline, that I shall
      be endangered by the infection which has so unhappily seized upon you: on the contrary, I hope
      to eradicate from your heart the seeds of the pestilence of sin! And it is also you who
      require the alms of sympathy and solace; for you must be very—very wretched! Do not think,
      then, that I will desert you: oh! no—the more guilty, the more miserable you are, the stronger
      shall be the bond that unites me to your interests!"  
  This was the holy and touching language with which Eliza Sydney sought to move the heart of
      Lady Ravensworth to penitence.  
  Could such wholesome means fail of success?  
  No:—and Adeline felt rejoiced that her secret had become known to one who availed herself of
      that knowledge for such excellent purposes!  
  The comprehensive mind of Eliza Sydney enabled her to embrace at a glance all the new
      difficulties which the crime of Adeline had conjured up. Eliza's aim, as before stated, was to
      take such effectual steps to stop the guilty career of Vernon, that the heir of Ravensworth
      should be entirely freed from any farther peril at the hands of his unnatural uncle. But the
      very same moment that ruined Vernon and his atrocious assistant, might bring destruction upon
      Adeline; for when the strong grasp of the law once fixed itself on Tidkins, there was no
      guarantee that he would not, in his rage, reveal the terrible mystery respecting the fate of
      Lydia Hutchinson.  
  This chance was duly weighed by Eliza Sydney; but she conceived a plan to save Adeline from
      the overwhelming consequences of such an exposure.  
  What this project was will be explained hereafter:—suffice it for the present to say that it
      obviated the necessity of any change in the policy already adopted to defeat and punish
      Gilbert Vernon and Tidkins; and that Adeline gratefully assented to the conditions which it
      involved.  
  A far more embarrassing subject for immediate consideration presented itself to the mind of
      Eliza Sydney. This was how to advise Lady Ravensworth to act in respect to the requisition
      made by Gilbert Vernon, and so energetically backed by Anthony Tidkins, relative to her
      presence in the drawing and dining rooms. But at length Eliza decided upon recommending
      Adeline to yield in this instance.  
  "You will suffer too much in exposing yourself, by refusal, to the menaces and constant
      persecutions of Anthony Tidkins," said Eliza; "and moreover, we must remain faithful to our
      plan of not allowing Vernon to suspect that his plots are being met by counter-schemes. I
      shall always be with you when you are compelled to endure his presence; and therefore it will
      be better thus to humour him."  
  "I shall be guided by you in all things," returned Adeline.  
  She accordingly presided at the dinner-table that very evening:—and thus was the promise,
      made by the Resurrection Man to his employer, fulfilled to the letter.  
  During the repast, Vernon endeavoured to ingratiate himself as much as possible with the two
      ladies: but Adeline was too unhappy even to affect any feeling beyond cold politeness; and
      Eliza Sydney was only distantly courteous.  
  Coffee was served in the drawing-room; and afterwards the ladies withdrew to their own
      apartments.  
  "One grand point is at least gained," said Vernon to himself, when he was alone: "my amiable
      sister-in-law has been forced to leave her nest! In a day or two I must ask to see the child.
      But with what spell Tidkins effected this change in Adeline's conduct, I am at a loss to
      imagine!"  
  That night, at eleven o'clock, Eliza Sydney stole from the mansion, Adeline and Quentin
      being alone cognisant of her proceeding.  
  In the garden she met the faithful valet, who was provided with a drag, a
      mattock, a spade, and a sack.  
  They repaired together to the field in which was the pond where the remains of Lydia
      Hutchinson were concealed.  
  Quentin, who had purposely reconnoitred the vicinity in the afternoon, proceeded to dig a
      grave in a spot where there was no grass, and at a distance of about twenty yards from the
      water.  
  This labour occupied an hour: and, when it was concluded, he proceeded with Eliza to the
      pond.  
  The drag was used successfully; and the corpse was drawn to land. It was then wrapped in a
      large sheet which Eliza had brought for the purpose, and carried to the grave hollowed to
      receive it.  
  Eliza breathed a prayer for the soul of her whose remains were denied Christian sepulture,
      while Quentin threw back the soil. The superfluous earth was conveyed in the sack to the pond;
      and thus all traces of this hurried burial disappeared.  
  Eliza and Quentin then returned to the mansion.  
  On the following morning, after breakfast, Eliza Sydney walked out alone, and repaired to a
      grove at a short distance from the mansion.  
  A cab, containing two persons, drove up to the same spot a few moments afterwards; and
      Filippo, having leapt out, assisted Malkhatoun to alight.  
  Eliza immediately joined them; and they all three entered the grove together.  
  When they had proceeded so far as to be beyond the range of the cab-driver's hearing, Eliza
      stopped, and, addressing herself to Malkhatoun, said, "I hope that you understand enough of
      the English tongue to be able to converse with me for a few minutes upon a most important
      subject?"  
  "I am well acquainted with your language, lady," was the reply, spoken with singular
      accuracy for an oriental foreigner.  
  "Now listen to me attentively," continued Eliza: "I have read in some book of eastern travel
      that the inhabitants of Asia Minor, Georgia, and Circassia, possess the art of steeping the
      tobacco-leaf in a poison of such a nature that it undermines the constitution of him who uses
      the plant so treated."  
  "It is perfectly correct, lady," answered Malkhatoun; "and the operation of steeping the
      plant in the opiatic poison is chiefly performed by the female slaves."  
  "Have you ever seen the process?" inquired Eliza.  
  "Frequently," was the reply. "My father was a Georgian chief,"—and as she spoke, tears
      started into her eyes:—"he had many slaves, and they prepared the tobacco which he purposely
      left in his tents, when the Persian invaders drove him from them. To poison your enemies thus,
      is not deemed a dishonourable mode of warfare in Georgia."  
  "Should you recognise tobacco so prepared, were you to see it?" asked Eliza.  
  "Instantaneously, lady, on the application of fire," replied Malkhatoun; "for the poison
      used is of so peculiar a nature that its qualities are only put into action by means of fire.
      The most skilful chemist cannot discover its presence in tobacco, unless he light the weed and
      inhale the perfume of the vapour."  
  "The idea of such a circumstance struck me also," observed Eliza.  
  As she spoke, she produced from her reticule a small galley-pot containing some of the late
      Lord Ravensworth's tobacco: then she drew forth a box of lucifer-matches.  
  Malkhatoun held the galley-pot, while Eliza procured a light; and the flame was then applied
      to the tobacco.  
  The beautiful Georgian immediately inhaled the vapour, and said, "Lady, this tobacco is so
      strongly impregnated with the poison, that were the strongest man to indulge freely in its use
      for a few months, he would sink into the tomb."  
  "It is as I suspected," murmured Eliza.  
  "Tobacco thus poisoned," continued Malkhatoun, "possesses properties of so fascinating a
      nature, that he who smokes it becomes irresistibly attached to it; and I have heard it said in
      Georgia, that men labouring under incurable maladies, or those whose life is burthensome to
      them, have voluntarily whiled away their existence by the use of the poisoned weed."  
  "I thank you sincerely for this explanation," said Eliza. "And now, pardon me if I speak a
      few words concerning yourself—for it is with a good motive. When you mentioned the name of
      your father, tears started into your eyes."  
  "My poor father was slain in the battle which made me and several other Georgian females the
      prisoners of the Persian conquerors, against whom my sire rose in rebellion," answered
      Malkhatoun. "I was sent to Teflis, and sold as a slave to a Turkish merchant, who carried me
      to Constantinople, where I was purchased for an English nobleman. I wept ere now, lady,
      because I have a mother, and brothers, and sisters living in my native land; and my heart
      yearns towards them."  
  "And would you be pleased, my poor girl, to return to Georgia?" asked Eliza, the tears
      trickling down her cheeks—for Malkhatoun's voice was soft and plaintive as she told her
      artless tale.  
  "I would give half the years that remain to me to embrace my dear mother and brothers and
      sisters once more," replied Malkhatoun.  
  "You shall return to them—oh! you shall return to them with as little delay as possible,"
      exclaimed Eliza. "In the course of this day I will transmit by post to you, Filippo, a draft
      upon my banker to supply the means for this poor girl to go back to her native land."  
  "And it shall be my duty, madam, to see her safely on board the first ship that sails for
      the Levant," said Filippo.  
  Malkhatoun could scarcely believe her ears; but when she saw that Eliza was really in
      earnest, she threw herself at the feet of her benefactress, whose hand she covered with her
      kisses and her tears.  
  Eliza hastened to raise her from that posture; and when the now happy Georgian became
      composed, they all three retraced their steps to the cab.  
  Malkhatoun and Filippo returned to London; and Eliza retraced her way to Ravensworth
      Hall.  
  Nor did she forget her promise to Malkhatoun; and two days afterwards the fair Georgian
      embarked at Gravesend on board a ship bound for the Levant.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXVII.   THE JUGGLERS.  
  Nearly five weeks had elapsed since the day when the noble-minded Eliza Sydney first took up
      her quarters at Ravensworth Hall.  
  Time was, therefore, now verging towards the close of May, 1841.  
  It was at about nine o'clock in the morning of a charming day, at this period, that the
      Resurrection Man sauntered leisurely from the servants' offices, at Ravensworth Hall, with the
      air of a person about to indulge in a stroll after eating a good breakfast.  
  But when he was out of sight of the Hall, he quickened his pace, and proceeded somewhat
      rapidly towards the ruined lodge where he had once before met the Honourable Gilbert
      Vernon.  
  And it was to meet that very same individual that he now sought the place again.  
  But as Vernon had not yet arrived, Tidkins, after walking round the dilapidated cottage to
      convince himself that no stranger was near, took a seat upon a pile of bricks, and, producing
      a cigar-case, was speedily wrapped in the enjoyment of a mild havannah and his own delectable
      meditations.  
  With the nature of those thoughts we shall not trouble the reader: suffice it to say that
      they were all connected with the scheme which he and his master were carrying on at
      Ravensworth Hall, and the last dread act of which was now in immediate contemplation.  
  Tidkins had just lighted a second cigar, when he descried Vernon at a distance.  
  He, however, continued to smoke—for he was not the man to stand upon any ceremony with his
      employer, even were that employer a prince.  
  "Come at last?" said Tidkins, as Vernon entered the ruins. "Been doing the amiable to the
      ladies, I suppose?"  
  "I have succeeded in that task tolerably well lately," answered Vernon, with difficulty
      concealing an expression of disgust at the odious familiarity of his agent; but he had already
      learnt that crime places the menial upon a footing with the master, and compels the haughty
      aristocrat to brook the insolence of the vulgar desperado.  
  "Well, now we are drawing to the end of the play at last," continued Tidkins. "So much the
      better: for I was getting infernally sick of this moping kind of life. But what if this plan
      of ours should happen to fail?"  
  "Then I will try another—and even another, if necessary, until we succeed," answered Vernon,
      emphatically. "Yes: I am now so bent upon the deed—so resolved to become the lord and owner of
      these broad lands and yon proud mansion—that I will even risk my neck to attain that end."  
  "You speak in a plucky manner that I admire," said Tidkins. "Besides, when once you are Lord
      Ravensworth, who will dare to utter a suspicion—even if there should seem any ground for
      it?"  
  "No one—certainly," replied Vernon. "But have you looked about the ruins? Remember the last
      time we met here—there was an eaves-dropper then——"  
  "Don't alarm yourself," interrupted Tidkins: "I walked carefully round the place; and I'll
      swear no one is near. Unless, indeed," he added, with a jocular chuckle, "some very curious
      person has got into that great cistern up there; and I must confess I didn't climb up to look
      into it."  
  "Cease this humour," said Vernon, somewhat sternly. "If you have been round the ruins, that
      is sufficient. Our business is too important to allow us to waste time in idle bantering. Do
      the jugglers understand that they are to come up this evening?"  
  "Fully so," answered Tidkins, coolly inhaling the fragrant vapour of his cigar. "They are
      all at the   Three Kings  —that public-house which you see by the road-side yonder,—and
      most likely making merry with the couple of guineas that I gave them last night. It is not
      necessary that I should see them again before they come to the Hall."  
  "You mentioned to them that there was a sick lady at the mansion who would be amused with
      their sports?" said Vernon.  
  "I have already told you what representations I made," replied Tidkins, impatiently.
      "Where's the use of asking the question over again?"  
  "For the same reason that one reads a letter twice," rejoined Vernon,—"to see that nothing
      has been omitted which ought to be said or done. But are you sure that the fellows will
      understand how to use the detonating balls?"  
  "Nothing is easier," answered Tidkins. "And as it was merely to try one that we agreed to
      meet here now, suppose I just make the trial directly?"  
  "Yes—I am anxious to be assured of the effect," said Vernon. "We are far enough away from
      the Hall to do so in safety."  
  "Certainly we are," remarked Tidkins. "In the first place we're down in this deep valley;—in
      the second place there's the thick grove on the top of the hill;—and in the third place, even
      if there wasn't the hill at all between us and the Hall, the back windows of the mansion don't
      look this way. So the smoke can't be seen."  
  "True!" exclaimed Vernon. "And now for the test."  
  The Resurrection Man drew from his pocket a ball covered with coarse blue paper, and nearly
      as large as a cricket-ball.  
  Then, rising from his seat, he dashed it with some degree of violence upon the hard
      ground.  
  It exploded in the twinkling of an eye, with a din as loud as that of a blunderbuss; and
      both Vernon and the Resurrection Man were immediately enveloped in a dense cloud of black and
      sulphurous-smelling smoke.  
  When the dark volume had blown away, Vernon beheld the cadaverous countenance of the
      Resurrection Man looking towards him with a grin of ferocious satisfaction.  
  "Well—will that do?" cried Tidkins, triumphantly.  
  "Admirably," answered Gilbert, averting his face—for there was something fiend-like and
      horrible in the leer of his companion.  
  There was a short pause; and then those two villains resumed their conversation. But as the
      remainder of their discourse was connected with the last act of their tragic drama, which we
      shall be compelled to relate in detail, it is unnecessary to record in this place any more of
      what passed between them upon the present occasion.  
  After having been nearly an hour together, Gilbert Vernon and the Resurrection Man
      separated, in order to return by different routes to the Hall.  
  Five minutes after they had left the building, the head of a man looked cautiously over the
      brink of the empty cistern to which Tidkins had jocularly alluded, and which stood on the top
      of the least dilapidated portion of the lodge.  
  person who was concealed in the cistern emerged from his hiding-place and let
      himself drop lightly upon the ground.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  This individual was the gipsy, Morcar.  
  Being on his way to London,—alone, and upon some business connected with his tribe,—he had
      stopped to rest himself in those ruins: but he had not been there many minutes, when he heard
      the sound of footsteps; and, almost immediately afterwards, he beheld, through a cranny in the
      wall behind which he was seated, the well-known form and features of the Resurrection Man.  
  His first impulse was to dart upon the miscreant and endeavour to make him his prisoner;
      but, seeing that Tidkins looked suspiciously about, Morcar instantly imagined that he had some
      object in seeking that place. At the same time it struck him, from his knowledge of the
      Resurrection Man's character, that this object could be no good one; and he resolved to watch
      the villain's proceedings.  
  Thus, while Tidkins was making the circuit of the ruins, Morcar clambered noiselessly and
      rapidly up to the cistern, in which he concealed himself.  
  The consequence was, that the gipsy overheard the entire discourse which shortly afterwards
      ensued between Tidkins and Vernon; and a scheme of such diabolical villany was thus revealed
      to him, that his hair almost stood on end as the details of the fearful plot were gradually
      developed by means of that conversation.  
  When the Resurrection Man and Gilbert Vernon had taken their departure, and Morcar had
      emerged from his hiding-place, his first impulse was to proceed to Ravensworth Hall and
      communicate every thing he had overheard to the lady of that mansion.  
  But, ere he took that step, he sate down, with the usual caution which characterises his
      race, to ponder upon the subject.  
  We have before stated that it is repugnant to the principles of the Zingarees to be
      instrumental in delivering a criminal over to any justice save their own; and Morcar knew that
      if he did adopt such a course, he must necessarily appear as a witness against the two
      villains whose dark designs he had so strangely discovered. This appearance in a court of
      justice would sorely damage him with his tribe, over whom he was to rule at his father's
      death.  
  of Richard Markham's example upon the generous-hearted Morcar would have hushed
      those scruples and induced him to do what his good sense told him was his duty towards
      society, had not the sudden reminiscence of a certain portion of the conversation he had
      overheard confirmed him in the opinion that he should be acting more prudently to counteract
      the project of the two villains at the moment it was to be put into execution, rather than
      deliver them up to justice ere it was attempted.  
  "  I am now so bent upon the deed  ," had one of the miscreants said, "  so resolved
       to become the owner of these broad lands and yon proud mansion—that I will even risk my neck
       to attain that end!  "  
  The reasoning which these words now engendered in Morcar's mind, was coincidentally similar
      to that upon which Eliza Sydney's conduct had been based.  
  "This man," thought Morcar, "who dared to utter such sentiments, is the member of a noble
      family—the next heir after an infant child, to the title and lands of Ravensworth. Would the
      word of a wandering gipsy be for a moment credited against his indignant denial of the
      accusation which I should make against him, were he now delivered up to justice? And, were he
      to escape from that accusation, would he not commence anew his dark plots against the life of
      that child who seems to stand in his way? Far better will it be for me to counteract his
      scheme, and then proclaim his guilt when   my   evidence can be corroborated by the fact
      that   he   did attempt the deed of which he will stand accused! Yes—it must be so. Then
      will the law for ever remove him from a scene where his detestable machinations would sooner
      or later prove fatal to their innocent object!"  
  Having devised a mode of proceeding, Morcar quitted the ruins, and bent his way towards the
         Three Kings   public-house, which was about a mile distant.  
  On his arrival at the little rustic inn, the gipsy sauntered into the tap-room, where he
      sate down, and ordered some refreshment.  
  At one of the tables five men were busily engaged in devouring bread and cheese and washing
      down the same with long draughts of Barclay and Perkins's Treble X. They were thin, but
      well-made and athletic-looking fellows; and were dressed in garments of which fustian and
      corduroy were the principal materials. On the bench near them were several bundles tied up in
      handkerchiefs, through the openings and holes of which the quick eye of the gipsy caught sight
      of certain nankin breeches and flesh-coloured stockings, such as are worn by itinerant
      mountebanks. In a corner of the room stood a large drum, and near it a wicker basket with a
      lid.  
  Morcar was convinced that these persons were the same to whom Vernon and Tidkins had
      alluded.  
  His object was now to get into conversation with them; and this was easily effected by one
      of those casual remarks upon the weather which invariably commence a discourse between
      strangers in this country.  
  "Fine day," said the gipsy, after quenching his thirst with half the contents of a pint of
      porter.  
  "Very, indeed," replied one of the men. "Have you walked far this morning?"  
  "Pretty well," returned Morcar. "I'm going to London presently," he added with apparent
      carelessness, "to try and astonish the people a little."  
  "Ah!" exclaimed another of the jugglers: "and how so? For it must be a clever feller to do
      that with the Londoners. But may be your people have got hold of some new way of telling
      fortunes—for the old one is veared out by this time, I should think."  
  "You suppose that because I am of the gipsy race I must be connected with women who tell
      fortunes," said Morcar, laughing good-naturedly. "Well, so I have been; but now I'm going to
      begin in a new line. In fact I don't mind telling you what it is—it's no secret; and I'm half
      inclined to believe that it's more or less in your way also," he added, glancing significantly
      towards the drum and the bundles.  
  "If you could only do some new trick in our line," cried one of the men, eagerly, "you'd
      make your fortune: but it must be a good one, mind."  
  "I can do a trick that, I flatter myself, no other man in England can perform," said Morcar,
      still speaking in a careless, indifferent kind of way. "But as you tell me that you
         are   in the juggling line——"  
  "Yes—we are; and we ain't ashamed on't," exclaimed two or three of the men together.  
  "Well—then I'll explain to you what I can do," continued Morcar. "I've made a net that winds
      round an immense long roller, which must be raised upon two upright stakes. When the net is
      drawn out at dusk, or in a darkened room, it shows a thousand different figures—men, animals,
      fish, birds, snakes, and monsters of all kinds."  
  "Capital!—capital!" exclaimed the jugglers.  
  "But that isn't all," continued Morcar. "These figures all move
      about—skip—leap—dance—fly—crawl—or seem to swim, according to their nature."  
  "Come, come—that won't do!" said one of the men, who began to think the gipsy was bantering
      them.  
  "It's as true as you're there," answered Morcar, seriously; "and it's very easy to do,
      too:—only a little phosphorus and other chemical things, skilfully used in a particular way. I
      reckon upon setting all the young children wild with delight when they see it."  
  "And if you can really do what you say," observed the man who had last spoken, "you're safe
      to make your ten bob a-day. But, then," he added, with a sly glance towards his companions,
      "the trick won't take so well alone: it ought to come after the usual exhibition of chaps like
      us."  
  "That's just what I have been thinking myself," cried Morcar. "Only, as I didn't know any
      people in your way——"  
  "Well, now you know some, at all events," interrupted the spokesman of the party of
      jugglers; "and though I say it what shouldn't perhaps, you won't find a jollier or better set
      of fellers than us in all England. What should you say to making a bargain with us?"  
  "I have no objection," replied Morcar: "we can but give the thing a trial. But I would
      rather begin in the country, if possible, than in London."  
  "The very ticket!" cried the man: "you shall begin to-night. We're hired to perform at that
      great house which you see from the window; and as we are to be there about half an hour before
      sunset, it will just be dark enough at the end of our performances for you to show yours. What
      do you say?"  
  "Let us settle the terms," answered Morcar; "and I've no objection."  
  The five jugglers, who were evidently much delighted at the prospect of securing so valuable
      an addition to their troop, consulted together in whispers for a short period, while Morcar
      hummed a tune as if perfectly indifferent whether a bargain were concluded or not. The men did
      not fail to remark his free and off-hand manner, and took it as an unquestionable proof of his
      confidence in the value of his invention and the success which must attend upon its
      exhibition. They therefore resolved to enlist him on almost any terms.  
  "Well," said the spokesman of the party, at length turning towards Morcar once more, "me and
      my partners here have no objection to give you one-third of the earnings."  
  "That will suit my purpose uncommonly," replied Morcar: "so let us shake hands upon it."  
  "And wet it," added one of the jugglers, who, as the gipsy subsequently discovered, was the
      musician of the party—his instrumental harmony being composed of the huge drum and a set of
      Pandean pipes, vulgarly called a mouth-organ.  
  The process of shaking hands all round and of imbibing more strong beer was then gone
      through; after which the jugglers became very anxious to see the marvellous net that was to
      make their fortunes. They were, therefore, somewhat disappointed when Morcar informed them
      that one of the tribe had conveyed it to London in his cart the day before; but their
      elongating countenances expanded once more into smiles of satisfaction when he assured them
      that he would instantly set off after it, and be with them again at least an hour previously
      to the time when they intended to visit the mansion in the neighbourhood.  
  Matters being thus arranged, Morcar took his departure—rejoiced at the success of his
      project, though somewhat annoyed at having been compelled to utter so many falsehoods to the
      credulous jugglers. But this vexation was speedily dissipated by the remembrance of the
      important duty which he had undertaken; and he moreover intended to make the poor fellows a
      handsome recompense for the disappointment they were destined to experience relative to the
      wonderful net.  
  It is not necessary to follow the gipsy's footsteps to the metropolis, and back to the
         Three Kings   again: suffice it to say that he made his appearance at the little
      public-house shortly after six o'clock in the evening—much to the joy of the five jugglers,
      who began to imagine that he had been hoaxing them.  
  But all their suspicions vanished when they beheld the gipsy return, with an iron rod, as
      long as a hop-pole, and round which the magic net was rolled, over his shoulder.  
  This rod was not much thicker than the thumb, but the bulk of the burden was considerably
      increased by the folds of the net.  
  And at that net did the jugglers stare with such eager eyes, that Morcar could hardly
      contain his laughter: for the net was nothing more than a common one of the very largest size,
      such as poachers use to drag canals and small rivers. It was, however, very strong, and when
      stretched out would cover a room eighteen feet long, by twelve in width.  
  The iron rod was about thirteen feet long, and the net was rolled round it breadthways.  
  "You will let us have a sight of the thing before we go?" said one of the jugglers.  
  "I had rather rest myself for half an hour, or so if you please," returned Morcar. "My walk
      to-day has been none of the shortest; and I am sadly fatigued. Your curiosity will keep till
      by and by; for as I have fulfilled my word in coming back, you surely can trust me when I tell
      you that this net, simple as it may appear, will do all I have promised. Besides, we should
      only have the trouble of darkening the room, which must be done with blankets, as there are no
      shutters."  
  "Let our new friend have his own way, Mike," said the musician of the troop.  
  "And now," continued Morcar, "I must propose a certain condition, without giving any
      explanation, but it belongs to my part of the performance. What I require is this:—one of you
      must remain entirely with me from the moment I pitch the stakes to which this net is to be
      fastened; and the one who so remains with me, must do just as I direct him in the arrangement
      of the net; because I must seize a particular time of the evening, in regard to the twilight,
      to unroll it."  
  "Well—that can be managed without difficulty," said the man who had been addressed as Mike.
      "It is always my business to collect the coppers after the exhibition; and I take no share in
      the performances. So I can remain with you—and whatever you tell me to do, shall be done."  
  "So far, so good," exclaimed Morcar. "And now, as it is pretty nearly time to set off, we
      had better begin to dress."  
  "Are   you   going to dress too?" demanded Mike, with mingled satisfaction and
      astonishment.  
  "Only just to disguise myself a bit," answered Morcar, taking a huge red wig from one pocket
      and a hideous mask from another; "because there's often a prejudice amongst people—especially
      young ones—against gipsies."  
  "So there is," observed Mike. "Besides, it's much better to go in character, as they
      say."  
  The jugglers were now in high spirits; and they speedily addressed themselves to the process
      of changing their common apparel for the professional costume.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXVIII.   THE PERFORMANCE.  
  The evening was serene and beautiful.  
  A few thin vapours floated lazily through the blue arch, the hue of which was deliciously
      mellowed by the golden light of the sun.  
  It was about seven o'clock; and the principal inmates of Ravensworth Hall were collected in
      the drawing-room.  
  Adeline, pale, emaciated, and care-worn, was reclining upon the sofa; and near her sate
      Eliza Sydney.  
  The nurse was walking up and down the apartment, with the infant heir in her arms.  
  Gilbert Vernon was standing outside the window, on a spacious balcony, around which were
      placed green wooden boxes and garden-pots containing shrubs and early flowers.  
  and the child can be well wrapped up. But, indeed, there are no dangers to
      fear—for the earth is parched with the heat of the day."  
  "I feel incapable of any energy," answered Adeline, mournfully—very mournfully. "Never have
      my spirits been so depressed as they are this evening. Methinks that a presentiment of evil
      near at hand, weighs upon my soul. Oh! when will this dread state of suspense terminate? For
      five long weeks has it now lasted——"  
  "Hush! lady—speak lower!" interrupted Eliza. "Mr. Vernon might suddenly enter from the
      balcony."  
  "Ah! my dear friend," returned Adeline; "do I not suffer a fearful penalty for my crimes?
      But human nature cannot endure this doubt—this appalling uncertainty any longer! What does he
      mean? what can be his plans?"  
  "Would that we were indeed able to read them!" said Eliza, earnestly. "But the term of this
      strange drama must speedily arrive," she continued, sinking her voice to a scarcely audible
      whisper, as she leant over the unhappy lady whom she thus addressed. "Vernon does not remain
      here from motives of pleasure: he has not abandoned his projects."  
  "Yet wherefore should he appear so affectionate towards the child?" asked Adeline. "When he
      first took my sweet Ferdinand in his arms, oh! how I trembled lest he should strangle him in
      his embrace; and had not a look from you reassured me, I should have shrieked with terror! But
      now I scarcely entertain a fear when I see my brother-in-law fondle my child. Tell me, dear
      friend—how must I account for this altered state of feelings?"  
  "Habit has taught you to subdue your alarms in this respect," replied Eliza Sydney. "Your
      brother-in-law has gradually devoted more and more of his attention to your dear Ferdinand;
      and as he never seeks to take him—nor even to approach him—save with your consent, you are to
      some extent thrown off your guard. Then, as a mother, you are naturally inclined to think
      better of that man since he has thus seemed to manifest an affection for his nephew. But, be
      not deceived, lady—his soul is deep and designing! Think you that he cares for a babe not yet
      ten weeks old? Oh! no—it is not probable! And when he talks in a hypocritical tone of his
      lamented brother's child—and expresses those apparently earnest hopes that the heir of
      Ravensworth may eventually prove an honour to the noble house to which he belongs, and to the
      ancient name which he bears,—ah! be not deceived by him, lady—I implore you: he means nothing
      that is good—he is playing a part, the true object of which I cannot fathom!"  
  "Oh! think not that I am deceived by him, dear friend," answered Lady Ravensworth: "think
      not that my suspicions relative to him are hushed. No—no: else wherefore should I complain of
      this cruel suspense? There are times, indeed, when I could throw myself at his feet—implore
      him to quit these walls—and beg upon my knees for mercy towards my child! Does this show that
      I have forgotten all those circumstances which have led us to look upon him with an abhorrence
      that we have alike had so much difficulty to conceal?"  
  "I am aware of all you must suffer," answered Eliza, with a profound sigh; for she
      pitied—deeply pitied the wretched but criminal woman: "still it is for your child's sake that
      I have tutored you to play this game of hypocrisy,—that I have induced   you   and
      compelled   myself   to endure the society of one who is loathsome to us both,—and that
      we have even condescended to veil beneath smiles our consciousness of his character and
      atrocious designs. This has been the sum of our hypocrisy;—and how venial it is! And now that
      all my plans are so nearly matured—with the exception of the return of my messenger from
      Beyrout——"  
  "And on his return?" said Adeline, anxiously.  
  "Have I not assured you that the moment which places in my hands the conclusive proofs of
      Vernon's guilt—the only link wanting to complete the chain——"  
  Eliza Sydney was suddenly interrupted by an exclamation which came from the lips of Gilbert
      Vernon.  
  She rose, and hastened to the window.  
  "Here is a troop of poor fellows who doubtless endeavour to earn an honest penny by their
      agility and skill," said Vernon; "and in a country where mendicity is a crime, even such a
      livelihood as theirs is honourably gained."  
  Had not Eliza Sydney's curiosity been at the moment attracted by the strange appearance of
      the corps of mountebanks to whom Vernon alluded, and who were advancing towards the Hall, she
      would have been struck with surprise at the emanation of such generous sentiments from so
      cold-hearted, austere, and aristocratic a person as he.  
  But her attention was for the time directed towards six persons, five of whom were clad in
      the light grotesque manner in which mountebanks appear at country-fairs, and even not
      unfrequently in the streets of London. They wore flesh-coloured stockings, nankin breeches,
      and jackets of variegated colours, as if, in respect to this latter article of their apparel,
      they attempted to vie with the peculiar costume of world-renowned Harlequin. The sixth was
      dressed in a common garb, and wore a hideous mask.  
  One of the jugglers carried an enormous drum slung behind his back, and had a set of Pandean
      pipes tucked in his neckcloth beneath his chin; and another was laden with a wicker-basket.
      The man who was dressed in the common garb and wore the mask, bore a long rod with a net
      twisted round it, upon his shoulder. A fourth carried two stout stakes; and the remaining two
      were empty-handed, although it was evident by their dress that they took no small share in the
      performances which itinerant mountebanks and conjurors of this kind are in the habit of
      exhibiting.  
  We must observe, in respect to the man who wore the mask, and who, as the reader already
      knows, was the gipsy Morcar, that beneath his ample straw hat, and over the edges of the mask,
      projected huge bushes of reddish-yellow hair, which seemed as if they had once belonged to a
      door-mat. He walked, a little apart from the others, in company with the man who carried the
      stakes.  
  "These conjurors evidently contemplate an exhibition upon the lawn before the windows," said
      Eliza Sydney, as the men drew nearer to the house. "I will send them out some money and
      request them to retire, as such performances are not suitable to a spot where mourning is
      still worn for the deceased lord."  
  as well as performers on the boards of our national theatres; and I am sure you
      possess too good a heart to wound them. No—let them remain; and if you can induce her ladyship
      to witness their sports from the balcony, she might be cheered for the moment."  
  "I should be sorry to wound the feelings of any living being who did not injure me,"
      answered Eliza: "but——"  
  "Nay, my dear Mrs. Beaufort," interrupted Vernon, "do not refuse me this request. You cannot
      think that I am boy enough to care for the tricks of these jugglers; but I am well
      aware—setting aside any consideration on their behalf—that the most trivial and frivolous
      amusement will often produce a favourable impression upon the spirits. Let Lady Ravensworth
      come to the window."  
  Eliza scarcely knew how to offer any farther objection: she was, however, about to make some
      remark in answer to Mr. Vernon, when the point at issue was settled by that gentleman
      beckoning the foremost mountebank to advance under the window.  
  "Now, my good fellow," he exclaimed, looking over the parapet of the balcony, and tossing
      the man a sovereign, "let us see how well you can amuse us."  
  "Thank'ee, sir," cried the man, receiving the money in his straw-hat. "We'll do our best,
      you may depend upon it, sir."  
  He then returned to his companions, who had stationed themselves at a short distance on the
      lawn.  
  The mountebanks forthwith commenced their preparations.  
  The wicker-basket was placed upon the ground; and its contents were speedily disposed in a
      manner to suit the performances. A long rope was tied to two trees of about twenty yards'
      distance from each other: some common blue plates and a wash-hand basin were laid upon the
      grass; and then a number of small yellow balls were ranged in a line, and at short intervals
      apart, across the lawn.  
  While some of the men were making these arrangements, Morcar and his companion advanced to
      within a short distance of the balcony, and drove the two stakes firmly into the ground. To
      the tops of these stakes they fastened the ends of the iron rod, without however unrolling the
      net, but in such a manner that the rod itself would revolve with ease, and the entire net
      might be drawn out in a moment. They then took their posts each by one of the stakes, and
      there remained motionless.  
  In the meantime the man with the drum and the mouth-organ had commenced his instrumental
      harmony, such as it was; and, at the sound, the servants of the Hall flocked from their
      offices to the steps of the entrance, well pleased to observe that the monotony of their
      existence in a dwelling where no company was now received, was about to be broken by even the
      performances of a few wandering mountebanks.  
  In the drawing-room, Vernon was still stationed at the balcony; and the nurse, holding the
      sleeping child in her arms, had approached the open window outside of which Vernon was thus
      standing.  
  Eliza Sydney had returned to the side of Lady Ravensworth, to whom she mentioned the
      presence of the mountebanks and the encouragement which they had received from Mr. Vernon.  
  "Does he suppose that my spirits can possibly be elevated by a buffoonery of this nature?"
      said Adeline, her lip curling with contemptuous hauteur. "Besides, such a proceeding is most
      indecent—most indelicate—on the very spot where a funeral so lately passed!"  
  "And yet it suits not our present purpose to anger him," returned Eliza.  
  Lady Ravensworth was about to reply, when Quentin entered the room and placed a letter in
      Eliza's hands.  
  The valet then withdrew.  
  Eliza immediately recognised the writing of the faithful Filippo, and opened it in
      haste.  
  Her countenance evinced signs of satisfaction as she perused its contents; but ere she
      reached the end, she sighed deeply.  
  "You have evil tidings there," whispered Lady Ravensworth, who had attentively watched her
      friend's countenance. "And yet, methought you smiled at first."  
  "I smiled," answered Eliza, also in a low tone, "because I was rejoiced to find that the
      only link wanting to complete the chain of evidence against that villain"—glancing towards the
      window as she thus spoke—"is now complete;—and to-morrow——"  
  "Ah! your messenger is returned from Beyrout?" said Adeline, joyfully. "Then wherefore seem
      sorrowful?"  
  "Because the tidings which I now receive confirms the terrible suspicion that your husband
      was indeed murdered,—coldly—systematically—methodically murdered,—by his own brother!"
      answered Eliza. "Alas! for the honour of human nature that such things should be!"  
  Adeline became red as scarlet, and a profound sigh escaped her bosom;—for was she not also a
      disgrace to human nature?  
  Eliza forgot at the moment that her words were calculated to wound the already deeply
      lacerated heart of Lady Ravensworth;—else not for a moment—criminal as Adeline was—would those
      words have escaped her tongue.  
  Neither did she perceive the acute emotions which she had awakened; for she was intent upon
      the reflections excited by the arrival of Filippo's letter.  
  In the meantime the sports upon the lawn had commenced.  
  One of the mountebanks ascended to the tightrope, and performed many curious evolutions,
      much to the amusement not only of the servants assembled upon the steps at the entrance, but
      even of the nurse at the window.  
  When the dancing was over, a second juggler balanced first a blue plate, and then the basin,
      on the point of a long stick—making them spin rapidly round, to the especial delight of the
      female servants. The nurse, too, was so very much amused that she crossed the threshold of the
      window, and advanced a little upon the balcony, the better to view the performance.  
  Vernon seemed intent upon the sports, and did not appear to notice that the ladies were not
      spectators also. But perhaps he might have thought that they were at another window.  
  And all this while Morcar, with his mask and bushy yellow hair, and his assistant Mike, were
      stationed each by one of the stakes to which the net was fixed.  
  balcony at these two men, whose presence there seemed somewhat to annoy him: and
      when the exhibition of the plates and basin was over, he leant forward, exclaiming, "Well, my
      good fellows, when does your turn come? and what are you going to do with that iron pole and
      net?"  
  "You shall see presently, sir," replied Morcar. "It will be the best trick of the whole—as I
      know you'll admit."  
  "It is all right," thought Vernon to himself. "These fellows know not the motive for which
      they were hired; and therefore the fact of their placing the net there can only be a
      coincidence. However, it is far enough away from the flag-stones to suit my purpose."  
  Such were the rapid reflections which passed through Vernon's brain.  
  And had searching eyes been fixed upon his countenance now, they would have observed that
      although he seemed to watch the sports with a zest passing strange in a man of his years,
      there were far more important matters agitating in his brain;—for his face was pale—his lips
      quivered from time to time—and, even while his head remained stationary as if he were looking
      straight towards the lawn, his eyes were wild and wandering.  
  Amidst the servants on the steps of the entrance stood the Resurrection Man, apparently one
      of the most enthusiastic admirers of the sport. But   he  —as well as his employer in the
      balcony—was somewhat annoyed when he beheld the iron rod and the net which was rolled round
      it, placed upon the stakes on the verge of the lawn almost beneath the open window of the
      drawing-room. Another circumstance likewise engaged his attention. This was that he had only
      seen five jugglers when he had first hired them for the performances; whereas there were now
      six present. He, however, consoled himself with the idea that the man in the mask and his
      companion had taken their station so near the balcony, simply because their exhibition,
      whatever it was, should be better viewed by the inmates of the drawing-room; and relative to
      the presence of the sixth juggler, he said to himself upon second thoughts, "Well, after all,
      the troop might have been joined by another comrade since I saw them last night."  
  But to continue the thread of our narrative.  
  The last beams of the setting sun were flickering faintly in the western horizon, when the
      jugglers commenced what may be termed the third act of their performances—namely, the athletic
      exercises. They had wrestling matches, took extraordinary leaps, and performed various other
      feats of strength and skill. These being over, one of the band threw himself back, supporting
      himself with his hands on the ground, and in this position ran on all fours along the line of
      yellow balls, picking them up with his mouth, one after the other, with astonishing
      rapidity.  
  This feat elicited a burst of applause from the servants on the steps; and the nurse, still
      holding the child in her arms, advanced close up to the parapet of the balcony.  
  The sun had already set when that last feat began: the twilight was, however, sufficiently
      strong to permit the spectators to obtain a good view of the performance. But the jugglers now
      paused for a few minutes to rest themselves; and during that interval the duskiness sensibly
      increased.  
  "I wonder what these men are going to do with their iron pole and net," observed Vernon.
      "Surely their turn must have come now?"  
  The nurse looked over the parapet to see whether the man in the mask and his companion were
      still stationed near their apparatus, the use of which puzzled her amazingly.  
  At that moment two of the jugglers who had advanced from the lawn towards the flag-stones
      that skirted the wall of the mansion, threw each a detonating-ball upon the pavement.  
  The explosion was loud—abrupt—startling; and a volume of dense smoke instantly burst as it
      were from the ground, enveloping the balcony, and pouring even into the drawing-room through
      the open window.  
  And, almost at the same instant that the explosion took place, a terrible scream pierced the
      air; and this was followed by agonising shrieks, mingled with frantic cries of "The child! the
      child!"  
  "Merciful heavens!" ejaculated Eliza Sydney, rushing from her seat near Lady Adeline to the
      window.  
  But she was met by the nurse, who darted in from the balcony, clasping her hands together,
      and still screaming wildly—"The child! the child!"  
  "Holy God!" cried Vernon, also rushing into the room: "the infant has fallen over! Oh! my
      nephew—my dear nephew!"  
  And he sank upon a chair, as if overcome by his grief.  
  "Murderer!—vile—detestable assassin!" exclaimed Eliza Sydney: "this was no accident!"  
  "Madam," cried Vernon, starting from his seat, "recall those words—or I will not answer for
      my passion!"  
  "No—I dare you—monster, murderer that you are!" ejaculated Eliza, as she forced the nurse,
      who was raving violently, to a sofa.  
  At that moment shouts of delight were heard from below; and loud cries of "Saved! saved!"
      reached all the inmates of the drawing-room—save Lady Ravensworth, who had fainted the instant
      the first wild scream of the nurse had struck her ears like a death-omen.  
  "Saved! saved!" repeated the nurse, catching at the joyous sound, and now becoming
      hysterical with the effects of the revulsion of emotions thereby produced.  
  "Oh! if it be indeed true!" cried Eliza Sydney, darting towards the balcony; but it was now
      too dark to distinguish any thing that was passing below.  
  Her suspense did not, however, endure many moments longer; for the door of the drawing-room
      was suddenly thrown open, and the man in the mask rushed in, crying "Saved! saved!"  
  Eliza Sydney hastened to meet him, and received the child in her arms.  
  The little innocent was indeed unhurt, to all appearance, but was crying bitterly.  
  "Thank God! thank God!" exclaimed Eliza, fervently, as she pressed the child to her
      bosom.  
  Quentin now made his appearance with lights: and several of the servants had followed him as
      far as the door of the room.  
  "Call the lady's-maid, Quentin, for your mistress," said Eliza, hastily: "she has fainted!
      Bring water—vinegar—perfume;—I dare not part with the child!"  
  the room, she devoted the necessary attentions to Adeline, who, soon recovering,
      opened her eyes, gazed wildly around, and then exclaimed in a frantic tone, "My child! my
      child!"  
  "He is safe—he is unharmed, dear lady," said Eliza Sydney, advancing towards the sofa with
      the babe in her arms.  
  "Give him to me—to me only,—for I am his mother—and I will protect him!" cried Adeline in a
      shrieking tone: then, receiving the infant from her friend, she clasped it with frantic
      fondness to her bosom.  
  In the meantime—although this scene occupied but a few minutes—Gilbert Vernon had sunk upon
      a chair, like one intoxicated. A film came over his eyes—his brain reeled—and he could not
      accurately distinguish what was passing around him. Amidst the sudden chaos into which his
      ideas were plunged, one thought was alone clear—defined—and unobscured; and this was that the
      child was saved!  
  The moment Eliza Sidney had consigned the heir of Ravensworth to the arms of his mother, she
      said in a hasty whisper to Quentin, "Secure Anthony Tidkins without delay, and order the
      carriage immediately."  
  The valet quitted the room; and Eliza then advanced towards Gilbert Vernon, exclaiming in a
      loud tone, "Arrest this villain—hold him—keep him safely, till the officers of justice can be
      sent for. He murdered his brother; and ere now he has sought to murder that innocent
      babe!"  
  As these words, uttered with terrible emphasis, fell upon the ears of the servants, a cry of
      horror and execration burst from their lips; and Vernon, starting up, exclaimed, "Who accuses
      me? Wretches—you dare not say that I did such deeds!"  
  But the next moment he was pinioned by a pair of powerful arms; for Morcar, who had hastily
      thrown off his mask and wig, was prepared to secure the guilty man.  
  "Release me, villain!" cried Vernon, struggling furiously—but without avail; for some of the
      male domestics of the household now assisted the gipsy to retain him. "You shall suffer for
      this outrage—you shall pay dearly for your conduct! Who dares accuse me of an attempt on that
      child's life?"  
  "I!" answered Eliza Sydney, boldly.  
  "And I also!" echoed Morcar.  
  "Yes—and I too, murderous wretch!" exclaimed the nurse, stepping forward.  
  "This is absurd—ridiculous!" cried Vernon, ceasing to struggle, and sinking back into the
      chair. "You all know how I loved my nephew—how I fondled the dear infant; and you
      cannot—no—you cannot suppose——"  
  "I recollect it all now!" ejaculated the nurse, vehemently. "The sudden explosion of those
      fireworks frightened me dreadfully, and I loosened my hold upon the child: but—if I was
      standing before my God, I could declare with truth that the babe was at that very same moment
      pushed from my arms!—Oh! yes—I remember it all now!"  
  A second burst of indignation on the part of the servants struck terror to the heart of the
      guilty wretch, who writhed upon his chair; while the workings of his ashy pale countenance—the
      convulsive movements of his lips—and the wild rolling of his eyes, were terrible—terrible!  
  Nevertheless he mustered up courage sufficient to exclaim, "That woman speaks falsely! She
      dropped the child—and she would throw the blame on me!"  
  "She speaks truly,—vile—black-hearted man!" cried Eliza. "And now, learn that the sole
      object of my presence in this mansion has been to frustrate your diabolical plots, which for
      weeks have been known to me!"  
  "You!" said Vernon, quailing beneath the indignant glance of abhorrence which the royal
      widow fixed upon him.  
  "Yes," she continued: "not only have I remained here to frustrate your plots—which, alas!
      would have succeeded in destroying the child, had not some strange accident, as yet
      unaccounted for, at least to me, saved the innocent babe from being dashed to pieces against
      the stones beneath the balcony;—but I have also adopted those measures which will bring all
      your guilt most terribly home to you! Treacherous—infamous man, I denounce you as the murderer
      of your brother!"  
  "'Tis false—false as hell!" cried Vernon.  
  "It is, alas! too true," returned Eliza. "I have damning proofs against you!"  
  "Again I declare it is false!" said Gilbert, violently.  
  "Let us see," resumed Eliza. "You profess to have arrived from the East a few weeks ago; and
      you have been in England since December or January last! Lady Ravensworth heard your voice in
      the ruined lodge——"  
  "Ridiculous!—a mere coincidence—a false impression!" exclaimed Vernon.  
  "And your landlady in Stamford Street can prove that you lodged with her for several
      months," added Eliza.  
  "Monster!" ejaculated one of the servants who had hold upon him.  
  "All this proves nothing," cried Vernon, furiously.  
  "But the tobacco which you sent your brother was poisoned," said Eliza, with bitter
      emphasis.  
  "'Tis false! It has been submitted to tests: the surgeon who attended my brother had it
      analysed. All the inmates of the household can speak to this fact."  
  "And I also have had it analysed," returned Eliza; "and by a native of the East! Fire alone
      can develope its poisonous qualities; and the ablest chemists in England shall shortly test it
      by means of that process!"  
  "Even were it the rankest poison known, you cannot show that I sent it to my brother. I deny
      the charge—I scorn the imputation!" cried Gilbert Vernon.  
  "You will speak in a tone of diminished confidence," said Eliza, calmly, "when you hear that
      I despatched a messenger to Beyrout—that the very place where you purchased the tobacco in
      that town has been discovered—that the merchant who shipped it for you has made an affidavit
      before the British Consul at Beyrout to this effect—and that the precise time when you
      embarked from Beyrout for England has also been ascertained. Nay, more—the letters sent to
      your address in that town, announcing the death of your brother, reached their destination
      long after you had left, and were never opened—nor even seen by you! Yet you affected to
      return to England in consequence of the receipt of those letters."  
  pleased to call evidence against me?" demanded Vernon. "Is the scion of a noble
      race to be maligned—outraged—accused of atrocious crimes by an unknown but meddling
      woman?"  
  "Again you speak at random," answered Eliza; "for did I choose to proclaim my title and my
      rank, you would admit that not even the owners of the proud name of Ravensworth possess a
      dignity so exalted as mine. Let me, however, return to the sad subject of my discourse: let me
      convince you that the evidence of your crime is so overwhelming that penitence and prayer
      would become you far more than obstinacy, and haughty but vain denial! For if there be farther
      proofs of your guilt required, seek them for yourself in those circumstances which induced you
      to take into your service Anthony Tidkins, the Resurrection Man!"  
  Vernon shuddered fearfully as these words fell upon his ears; for it seemed as if a
      sledge-hammer had been suddenly struck upon his brain.  
  "And if farther proofs are really wanting, lady," said Morcar, "it is for me to supply them.
      This morning I was concealed in the ruins of a cottage at no great distance from the Hall; and
      there my ears were astounded with the damnable plot which this man and his accomplice had
      conceived against the life of the infant heir of Ravensworth. Why I did not immediately betray
      them—why I resolved on counteracting that plot, I will explain on a more fitting occasion. But
      let me inform you that it was by my device the child was saved; for the instant that the arms
      of the jugglers were raised to throw the detonating balls upon the ground, the net was
      unrolled—rapid as lightning—by my companion and myself; and the babe was caught in it as he
      fell!"  
  "Excellent man!" exclaimed Eliza Sydney, while a murmur of applause passed amongst the
      assembled servants: "who are you? what is your name?"  
  "I am one of that wandering tribe called   Gipsies  , madam," was the answer: "and my
      name is Morcar."  
  "Morcar!" echoed Eliza. "Oh! I have heard of you before—often—very often! The Prince of
      Montoni speaks of you as a friend; and your services to him in the Castelcicalan war have
      become a matter of history."  
  "Ah! is it possible?" cried Morcar, who for some moments had been studying Eliza's features
      with attention—for he had seen many portraits of her during his sojourn in Italy, and a light
      now broke in upon his memory: "is it possible that I am in the presence of her to whom that
      great Prince owes his life? Oh! madam, I also have to thank your Serene Highness—humble as I
      am—for the safety and freedom which I experienced after the defeat at Ossore."  
  And, as he spoke, Morcar abandoned his hold upon Gilbert Vernon, and fell upon his knees
      before the royal widow.  
  "Rise, Morcar," she hastily exclaimed: "I have renounced for ever the proud title of
      Grand-Duchess, and would henceforth be known as Eliza Sydney. Moreover, this is no time for
      homage—even were I disposed to receive it."  
  "The knee of Morcar bows not to princes because they are princes," returned the gipsy,
      proudly and yet respectfully; "but to men or women who by their virtues deserve such
      homage."  
  At that moment a cry of alarm burst from the servants who had still retained their hold upon
      Vernon; and at the same instant this guilty man sprang furiously from their grasp—hurled them
      violently aside—and, ere a single hand could stop his mad career, rushed to the window.  
  Morcar bounded after him: but it was too late.  
  Gilbert Vernon had precipitated himself from the balcony!  
  The sound of his fall upon the pavement beneath,—and the sound of a human being thus falling
      has none other like it in the world,—struck upon every ear in that drawing-room.  
  Some of the servants hastened down stairs, and ran to the spot where Vernon lay.  
  They raised him—they bore him into the hall; but the moment the light of the lamps fell upon
      him, they perceived that all human aid was unavailing.  
  His skull was literally beaten in, and his hair was covered with his blood and brains!  
  Thus did he meet the fate which he had all along intended for his infant nephew.  
  Terrible suicide—but just retribution!  
  Half an hour after this dread event a travelling carriage rolled rapidly away from
      Ravensworth Hall.  
  In it were seated Adeline, with her child upon her lap, her lady's-maid, and the nurse.  
  The faithful Quentin, who had been induced by the persuasion of Eliza Sydney to remain in
      the service of Lady Ravensworth, occupied the dickey behind the vehicle.  
  Adeline was now on her way to Dover, whence she purposed to pass to the continent; her
      intention being, in pursuance of the advice of Eliza, to seek some retired spot in the south
      of France, where she might at least find tranquillity and repose, if not happiness, after the
      rude storms to which she had lately been so fearfully exposed.  
  Not that this self-expatriation was compulsory on account of Lady Ravensworth's   one
       dread crime  : it was nevertheless the project to which we have before alluded, and by
      which means Eliza had planned that Adeline should escape from the consequences of any
      revelation that might be made by the Resurrection Man in respect to the murdered Lydia
      Hutchinson.  
  But no such revelation was made, inasmuch as Tidkins had disappeared from the mansion ere
      Quentin received the order to secure him. For the instant the cry of "Saved! saved!" fell upon
      the ears of the Resurrection Man and conveyed to him the stunning fact that the scheme had
      failed—that the child had escaped, in some marvellous manner, the fate intended for it,—then
      did he know full well that Ravensworth Hall was no longer the place for him. Reckless of what
      might become of Vernon, and unnoticed by the servants amidst the confusion which prevailed
      immediately after the fall of the child from the balcony, Tidkins slipped out of the mansion
      by the back way, and was speedily beyond the reach of danger.  
  Thus terminated that terrible series of incidents which constitute so strange an episode in
      the annals of the family of Ravensworth.  
  heart had been brought to a state of sincere and profound penitence,—she had
      learnt, we say, that this noble-hearted woman was one whose brow a diadem had lately
      graced!  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  We may also observe that Morcar refused the liberal recompense which both Adeline and Eliza
      proffered him for the most important service which he had rendered in defeating Vernon's plan
      at a moment when, in spite of all the precautions and the various measures adopted by Eliza,
      it seemed to touch upon the verge of a success fatal to the existence of the infant heir.  
  Satisfied with the approval of his own conscience, and attended by the blessings of a mother
      whose child he had saved, Morcar returned with the jugglers to the   Three Kings  , where
      he completely satisfied them for the disappointment they had experienced in respect to the
      wondrous properties of his net; and on the ensuing morning he parted from them, to pursue his
      own way.  
  Eliza Sydney passed the night at Ravensworth Hall; and, after the Coroner's Inquest had sate
      next day upon the body of the suicide Vernon, she returned to her peaceful villa at
      Clapton.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXXXIX.   THE RESURRECTION MAN'S RETURN HOME.  
  As the Resurrection Man hurried through the fields, amidst the darkness of the night, he
      vented in horrible imprecations the rage he experienced at the failure of a scheme to which he
      had devoted so much time and trouble.  
  He knew that the blank acceptance which he had extorted from Vernon, and which he had looked
      upon as the safe guarantee of the speedy acquisition of three thousand pounds, was now but a
      valueless slip of paper; and he cursed himself for having been foolish enough to advance some
      two or three hundred guineas of his own money to furnish his late employer with the supplies
      necessary for his purposes.  
  after he had obtained it in the manner already described, to his house in Globe
      Town.  
  And it was to this den that he was now repairing. He was as yet unacquainted with the fate
      of Gilbert Vernon; but, supposing it probable that justice might already have that individual
      in his grasp, he at once determined to provide for his own safety. Abandoning, therefore, all
      his long-nourished schemes of vengeance against the Prince of Montoni, the Rattlesnake, and
      Crankey Jem, Tidkins was now intent only on securing his treasure, and taking his departure
      for America with the least possible delay.  
  It was about two o'clock in the morning when the Resurrection Man, sinking with the fatigues
      of his long and circuitous journey round all the northern outskirts of London, arrived at his
      own house.  
  Wearied as he was, he wasted no time in snatching a temporary repose: a glass of spirits
      recruited his strength and invigorated his energies; and, with his bunch of keys in his hand,
      he repaired from his own chamber to the rooms on the ground-floor.  
  It will be remembered that on a former occasion,—on his return home, in the middle of the
      month of March, after his escape from the Middlesex House of Correction,—the Resurrection Man
      had perceived certain indications which led him to imagine that the step of an intruder had
      visited the ground-floor and the subterranean part of his house. His suspicions had fallen
      upon Banks; but an interview with this individual convinced him that those suspicions were
      unfounded; for although he did not question him point-blank upon the subject, yet his
      penetration was such, that he could judge of the real truth by the undertaker's manner.  
  Since that period Tidkins had visited his house in Globe Town on several occasions—indeed,
      as often as he could possibly get away from Ravensworth Hall for the greater portion of a day;
      and, perceiving no farther indications of the intrusion of a stranger, he became confirmed in
      the belief which had succeeded his first suspicions, and which was that he had been influenced
      by groundless alarms.  
  But now, the moment he put the key into the lock of the door in the alley, he uttered a
      terrible imprecation—for the key would not turn, and there was evidently something in the
      lock!  
  Hastily picking the lock with one of those wire-instruments which are used for the purpose
      by burglars, he extracted from it a piece of a key which had broken in the wards.  
  Fearful was now the rage of the Resurrection Man; and when he had succeeded in opening the
      door, he precipitated himself madly into that department of his abode.  
  But what pen can describe his savage fury, when, upon lighting a lantern, he saw the trap
      raised, and the brick removed from the place in the chimney where it covered the secret means
      of raising the hearth-stone?  
  Plunging desperately down into the subterranean, at the risk of breaking his neck, Tidkins
      felt like one on whose eyes a hideous spectre suddenly bursts, when he beheld the door of a
      cell—the very cell in which his treasure was concealed—standing wide open!  
  Staggering now, as a drunken man—and no longer rushing wildly along,—but dragging himself
      painfully,—Tidkins reached that cell.  
  His worst fears were confirmed: the stone in the centre was removed from its place;—and his
      treasure was gone!  
  Yes:—money-bags and jewel-casket—the produce of heaven only knows how much atrocity and
      blackest crime—had disappeared.  
  This was the second time that his hoarded wealth was snatched from him.  
  Then did that man—so energetic in the ways of turpitude, so strong in the stormy paths of
      guilt,—then did he sink down, with a hollow groan, upon the cold floor of the cell.  
  For a few minutes he lay like one deprived of sense and feeling, the only indications of
      life being the violent clenching of his fists, and the demoniac workings of his cadaverous
      countenance.  
  Cadaverous!—never did the face of a wretched being in the agonies of strangulation by
      hanging, present so appalling—so hideous an appearance!  
  But in a short time the Resurrection Man started up with a savage howl and a terrible
      imprecation: his energies—prostrated for a period—revived; and his first idea, when arousing
      from that torpor, was vengeance—a fearful vengeance upon the plunderer.  
  But who was that plunderer? whose hand had suddenly beggared him?  
  His suspicions instantly fixed themselves upon two persons—the only two of his accomplices
      who were acquainted with the mysteries of the subterranean.  
  These were Banks and the Buffer.  
  He was about to turn from the cell, and repair forthwith—even at that hour—to the dwelling
      of the undertaker, when his eyes suddenly fell upon some letters scrawled in chalk upon the
      pavement, and which the position of the lantern had hitherto prevented him from observing.  
  He stooped down, and read the words—"  James Cuffin  ."  
  The mystery was solved: his mortal enemy, Crankey Jem, had robbed him of his treasure!  
  Dark—terribly ominous and foreboding—was now the cloud which overspread the countenance of
      the Resurrection Man.  
  "Had I ten times the wealth I have lost," he muttered to himself, with a hyena-like growl,
      "I would not quit this country till I had wreaked my vengeance upon that man! But this is now
      no place for me: he has tracked me here—he may set the traps upon me. Let us see if the Bully
      Grand cannot discover his lurking hole."  
  With these words,—and now displaying that outward calmness which often covers the most
      intensely concentrated rage,—the Resurrection Man quitted the subterranean, carefully securing
      the doors behind him.  
  He purposely broke a key in the lock of the door leading into the dark alley, so as to
      prevent the intrusion of any of the neighbours, should their curiosity tempt them to visit the
      place; for he made up his mind not to return thither again so long as Jem Cuffin was alive and
      able to betray him.  
  Having provided himself with a few necessaries, he closed the up-stairs rooms, and then took
      his departure.  
  He bent his steps towards the house of the undertaker in Globe Lane; and, knocking him up,
      obtained admittance and a bed.  
  When he awoke from a sound sleep, into which sheer fatigue plunged him in spite of the
      unpleasant nature of his thoughts, it was broad-day-light.  
  He immediately rose and despatched one of Banks's boys for the morning newspaper;
      and from its columns he learnt the fate of the Honourable Gilbert Vernon.  
  "Better so than that he should have remained alive perhaps to repent, as these sentimental
      humbugs in high life usually do, and then blab against me," murmured Tidkins to himself. "The
      whole business at the Hall is evidently wrapped in considerable mystery; and there I hope it
      will remain. But now let me devote myself heart and soul to my search after that scoundrel
      Crankey Jem."  
  
  CHAPTER CCXL.   A NEW EPOCH.  
  Twenty months had elapsed since the events just related.  
  It was now the end of January, 1843.  
  Haply the reader may begin to imagine that our subject is well-nigh exhausted—that the
      mysteries of London are nearly all unveiled?  
  He errs; for London is a city containing such a variety of strange institutions, private as
      well as public, and presenting so many remarkable phases to the contemplation of the acute
      observer, that the writer who is resolved to avail himself fully of the heterogeneous
      materials thus supplied him, cannot readily lack food for comment and narrative.  
  The dwellers in the country, and even the inhabitants of the great provincial cities and
      manufacturing towns, can form no just estimate of the wondrous features of the sovereign
      metropolis by the local scenes with which they are familiar.  
  Who can judge of the splendour of the West End of London by even the most fashionable
      quarters of Edinburgh or Dublin?  
  Who can conceive the amount of revolting squalor and hideous penury existing in the poor
      districts of London, by a knowledge of the worst portions of Liverpool or Manchester?  
  Who can form a conjecture of the dreadful immorality and shocking vice of the low
      neighbourhoods of London, judging by the scenes presented to view in the great mining or
      manufacturing counties?  
  No:—for all that is most gorgeous and beautiful, as well as all that is most filthy and
      revolting,—all that is best of talent, or most degraded of ignorance,—all that is most
      admirable for virtue, or most detestable for crime,—all that is most refined in elegance, or
      most strange in barbarism,—all, all these wondrous phases are to be found, greatest in glory,
      or lowest in infamy, in the imperial city of the British Isles!  
  And shall we be charged with vanity, if we declare that never until now has the veil been so
      rudely torn aside, nor the corruptions of London been so boldly laid bare?  
  But, in undertaking this work, we were determined at the outset to be daunted by no fear of
      offending the high and the powerful: we were resolved to misrepresent nothing for the purpose
      of securing to ourselves the favour of those whom so many sycophants delight to bespatter with
      their sickly praises.  
  In the same independent spirit do we now pursue our narrative.  
  On the left-hand side of Brydges Street, as you proceed from the Strand towards Russell
      Street, Covent Garden, you may perceive a lamp projecting over the door of an establishment
      which, viewed externally, appears to be a modest eating-house; but which in reality is one of
      the most remarkable places of nocturnal entertainment in London.  
  Upon the lamp alluded to are painted these words——"  The Paradise  ."  
  It was past midnight, towards the end of January, 1843, when two gentlemen, wearing
      fashionable Taglioni coats over their elegant attire, and impregnating the fine frosty air
      with the vapour of their cigars, strolled into this establishment.  
  Proceeding down a passage, they pushed open a door with a painted ground-glass window, and
      entered a spacious supper-room.  
  This apartment was lofty, handsomely fitted up, well furnished, and provided with boxes
      containing little tables, like the coffee-room of an hotel.  
  A cheerful fire burnt in the grate, and the numerous lights suspended around the apartment
      were reflected in a handsome mirror over the mantel-piece.  
  Above the door leading into the room was a species of gallery, forming a grotto-like opening
      into a suite of upper apartments, which were reached by a flight of stairs leading from the
      passage just now mentioned.  
  All was gaiety and bustle both in the coffee-room below and the chambers above. Numerous
      suppers were in progress, the partakers thereof consisting of gentlemen of various
      descriptions and gay ladies of only one particular class. Oysters, lobsters, cold fowls, ham,
      and kidneys, constituted the principal edibles; while liquor flowed copiously and in all
      gradations of luxury, from humble porter in pewter pots to sparkling champagne in green
      bottles.  
  The male portion of the guests was composed of those various specimens of "gentlemen" who
      either turn night into day, or who make up for the toils of the day by the dissipated
      enjoyments of the night.  
  There was an attorney's clerk, who, having picked up a stray guinea in a manner for which he
      would not perhaps have liked to account, was doing the liberal, in the shape of oysters,
      stout, and hot brandy-and-water, to some fair Cyprian whom he had never seen before, and whom
      he would perhaps never see again, but with whom he was on the very best possible terms for the
      time being; the only trifling damper to   his   enjoyment being   her   constant
      anxiety lest "her friend" should happen to come in and catch her at supper with the said
      attorney's clerk.  
  There was a notorious black-leg, who was regaling a couple of frail ones with champagne and
      looking out for flats as well; while his accomplice was doing precisely the same in the next
      box,—both these respectable gentlemen affecting to be total strangers to each other.  
  There also was a handsome young man, who, having just come of age, and stepped into the
      possession of a good property, was commencing his career of waste and extravagance at the
      Paradise. Proud of the nauseating flattery of the three or four abandoned women who had him in
      tow, he was literally throwing about his money in all directions, and staring around him with
      the vacant air of semi-intoxication, as much as to say, "Don't you think me a very fine
      dashing fellow indeed?"  
  In another box was an old man, who had reached the wrong side of sixty, but who
      was endeavouring to make a young girl of seventeen believe that he was but forty-four last
      birth-day,—a tale which she had too much tact to appear to doubt for a moment, as the
      antiquated beau supplied her with copious draughts of champagne to enable her to swallow the
      lie the more easily.  
  A little farther on was a dandified, stiff-necked, coxcomical individual of about
      six-and-twenty, sipping sherry with a fair friend, and endeavouring to render himself as
      polite and agreeable as possible. But, at every word he spoke, he drew out the edge of the
      table-cloth to precisely the extent of a yard between his fore-fingers and thumbs;—whereby it
      was easy to perceive that, although he assured his companion he was a captain in the Guards,
      he in reality exercised the less conspicuous but more active employment of a linen-draper's
      assistant.  
  Crowding near the fire were several Cyprians, who had not as yet obtained cavaliers, and
      were therefore hovering between the alternatives of "supper" or "no supper," the odds being,
      to all appearances, in favour of the latter. They did not, however, seem very unhappy while
      their fate, as to oysters and stout, was pending in the balance of suspense; but laughed,
      chattered, and larked amongst themselves; and then, by way of avoiding any thing like monotony
      or sameness in their recreation, two of them got up a pleasant little quarrel which terminated
      in a brisk exchange of blows and scratches.  
  Leaning over the side of the grotto-like gallery before referred to, were two individuals,
      whose appearance was something between that of dissipated actors and broken down tradesmen;
      and who were so disguised in liquor that their own mothers could scarcely have recognised
      them. Being most probably wearied of their own conversation, they diverted themselves by
      addressing their remarks to the people in the coffee-room below, whom they invited in the most
      condescending manner possible to "flare up," "mind their eyes," "form a union," and enact
      various other little social civilities of the same ambiguous nature.  
  Within the upper rooms were several gay ladies and jovially disposed gentlemen, all mainly
      intent upon the pleasures of eating or drinking, which occupations were however relieved by
      boisterous shouts of laughter and practical jokes of all kinds.  
  In justice to the proprietor of this establishment it must be observed that he conducted it
      upon as orderly a system as could be possibly maintained when the characters of his patrons
      and patronesses are taken into consideration; and the moment a disturbance occurred, either
      himself or his waiters adopted the most efficient means of putting an end to it, by bundling
      the offenders neck-and-crop into the street.  
  The two gentlemen who lounged, as before stated, into this celebrated night-house on the
      occasion alluded to, took possession of a vacant box, and throwing down their cigars, summoned
      the waiter.  
  "Yes, sir—coming, sir—  di  -rectly, sir," cried the chief functionary thus adjured,
      and who was busy at the moment in disputing the items of the score with the linen-draper's
      assistant:—but, when that little matter was duly settled to the satisfaction of the waiter and
      the discomfiture of the assistant aforesaid, he hurried up to the table occupied by the new
      comers.  
  "Well, what shall we have, Harborough?" asked one of the gentlemen, appealing to his
      companion.  
  "'Pon my honour, I don't care a rap," was the reply. "Order what you like, old fellow."  
  Thus encouraged, Mr. Chichester (for it was he) desired the waiter to bring "no end of
      oysters," and to follow with a cold fowl.  
  "Yes, sir—certainly, sir," said the domestic, hastily transferring a pepper-box from one
      side of the table to the other, and smoothing down the cloth: "please to order any thing to
      drink, gentlemen?"  
  "A bottle of champagne," returned Mr. Chichester; "and make haste about it."  
  "Yes, sir—this minute, sir:"—and the waiter glided away with that kind of shuffling,
      shambling motion which no living beings save waiters can ever accomplish.  
  When the provender was duly supplied, and the first glass of champagne was quaffed,
      Chichester leant across the table, and said to the baronet in a low tone of chuckling triumph,
      "Well, old chap, I don't think we can complain of Fortune during the last three or four
      months?"  
  "No—far from it," returned Sir Rupert Harborough. "But we musn't be idle because we happen
      to have a few five pound notes in our pocket. However, things will turn up, I dare say."  
  "Yes—if we look out for them," said Chichester; "but not unless. By the bye, who do you
      think I met this afternoon, as I was strolling along the Strand?"  
  "Can't say at all," replied the baronet. "Who?"  
  "Greenwood," added Chichester.  
  "The deuce you did! And how was he looking?"  
  "Not so slap-up as he used to be:—no jewellery—toggery not quite new—hat showing marks of
      the late rain—boots patched at the sides—and cotton gloves."  
  "The scoundrel! Do you remember how he served me about that bill which I accepted in Lord
      Tremordyn's name? Ah! shouldn't I like to pay him out for it!" said the baronet. "But how he
      has fallen within the last two years! Turned out of his seat for Rottenborough at the last
      election—obliged to give up his splendid house in Spring Gardens——"  
  "Well, well—we know all about that," interrupted Chichester, impatiently. "Don't speak so
      loud; but look into the next box—the one behind me, I mean—and tell me if you think that young
      fellow who is treating those girls to champagne would prove a flat or not."  
  The baronet glanced in the direction indicated; and immediately afterwards gave an
      affirmative nod of the head to his companion: then, leaning across the table he whispered, "To
      be sure he would; and I know who he is. It's young Egerton—the son of the great outfitter, who
      died a few years ago, leaving a large fortune in trust for this lad. I'll be bound to say he
      has just come of age, and is launching out."  
  "Does he know you?" inquired Chichester, also speaking in a subdued tone.  
  "I am almost certain he does not," replied the baronet. "But sit up—we will soon see what he
      is made of. I will touch him on the   cross   that we have got up together."  
  The two friends resumed the discussion of their supper, and in a few minutes
      began to converse with each other in a tone loud enough to be heard—and intended also to be so
      heard—in the next box.  
  "And so you really think the Haggerstone Pet will beat the Birmingham Bruiser, Mr.
      Chichester?" observed the baronet, in a tone of mere friendly courtesy.  
  "I am convinced of it, Sir Rupert, in spite of the odds," was the answer, delivered in the
      same punctilious manner. "Will you take my four ponies upon the Haggerstone Pet to five?"  
  "Done, Mr. Chichester!" cried the baronet: then drawing out a betting-book from the
      breast-pocket of his coat, he proceeded to enter the wager, saying aloud and in a measured
      tone as he did so, "Back Birmingham Bruiser against Haggerstone Pet—five ponies to
      four—Honourable—Arthur—Chichester. There it is!"  
  This ceremony was followed on the part of Mr. Chichester, who, having produced   his  
      book, wrote down the wager, saying, "Back Haggerstone Pet against Birmingham Bruiser—four
      ponies to five—Sir—Rupert—Harborough—baronet."  
  "And now," exclaimed the baronet, "before we put up our books, I'll give you another chance.
      Will you take three hundred to one that the favourites for the fight and the   Derby  
      don't both win?"  
  "Stop, Sir Rupert!" cried Chichester. "Let me first see how I stand for the
        Derby  :"—then, as if speaking to himself, he continued, "Taken even five hundred, four
      horses against the field, from Lord Dunstable;—seven hundred to one against
         Eagle-wing  , from the Honourable Colonel Cholmondeley;—betted even five hundred,
         Skyscraper   to   Moonraker  , with the Honourable Augustus Smicksmack. Well, Sir
      Rupert," he exclaimed, raising his head from the contemplation of the leaf on which these sham
      bets were entered, "I don't mind if I take you."  
  "It's a bargain," said the baronet; and the wager was accordingly inscribed in the little
      books.  
  The two gentlemen then refreshed themselves each with another draught of champagne; and Sir
      Rupert Harborough, as he drank, glanced over the edge of the glass into the next box, to
      ascertain the effect produced upon Mr. Egerton by the previous little display of sporting
      spirit.  
  That effect was precisely the one which had been anticipated. Mr. Egerton was not so tipsy
      but that he was struck with the aristocratic names of the two gentlemen in the next box; and
      he raised his head from the bosom of a Cyprian to take a view of Sir Rupert Harborough, Bart.,
      and the Honourable Arthur Chichester.  
  So satisfactory was the result of the survey—at least to himself—that he determined not only
      to show off a little of his own "dashing spirit," but also, if possible, form the acquaintance
      of the two gentlemen; for, like many young fellows similarly circumstanced, he was foolish
      enough to believe that the possession of money   must   prove a passport to the best
      society, if he could only obtain an opening.  
  Therefore, having greedily devoured every word of the dialogue just detailed, and taking it
      for granted that nothing in this world was ever more sincere than the betting of Sir Rupert
      Harborough, Bart., and the Honourable Arthur Chichester, Mr. Egerton exclaimed, "Beg pardon,
      gentlemen, for intruding upon you; but I think I heard you staking some heavy sums on the
      coming fight?"  
  "Really, sir," said the baronet, gravely, "I was not aware that any thing which took place
      between me and this gentleman could be overheard;—and yet, after all," he added with a
      gracious smile, "I do not know that there is the least harm in a little quiet bet."  
  "Harm, no—and be damned to it!" ejaculated Mr. Egerton. "All I can say is, that I admire
      sporting men—I honour them: they're an ornament to the country. What would Old England—hic—be
      without her Turf—her hunting—her prize-fighting? For my part, I have a great idea of this
      fight—a very great—hic—idea. But I back the Birmingham Bruiser—I do."  
  "So do I, sir," answered the baronet "My friend here, however—the Honourable Mr.
      Chichester—fancies the Haggerstone Pet."  
  "I heard him say so," returned the young man. "But, if he hasn't made up his book, I don't
      mind betting him five hundred pounds—hic—to his four—that's the odds, I believe——"  
  "Yes—those are the odds," observed Mr. Chichester, carelessly: then, taking out his book, he
      said, "But I am already so deep in this fight, that I really am afraid——however, if you wish
      it, I don't mind——"  
  "Is it a bet, then, sir?" asked the young gentleman, looking round the room with an air of
      importance, as if he were quite accustomed to the thing, although it was in reality the first
      wager he had ever laid in his life.  
  "It shall be so, if you choose, sir," returned Chichester: then, glancing in an inquiring
      manner towards his new acquaintance, he said with a bland smile, "I really beg your pardon—but
      I have not the pleasure——"  
  "Oh! truly—you don't know me from Adam!" interrupted the other. "But you shall know me,
      sir—and I hope we shall know each other better too—hic."  
  He then produced his card; and Mr. Chichester, of course, affected not to have been
      previously aware of the young gentleman's name.  
  The bet between them was duly recorded—by Mr. Chichester in his little book, and by Mr.
      Albert Egerton on the back of a love-letter.  
  The latter gentleman then called for his bill, and having glanced at the amount, paid it
      without a murmur, adding a munificent donation for the waiter. Having effected this
      arrangement, by means of which he got rid of the women who had fastened themselves on him, he
      coolly passed round to the table at which his new acquaintances were seated, and called for
      another bottle of champagne.  
  When it was brought, he was about to pay for it; but Sir Rupert interrupted him, saying,
      "No—that would be too bad. If you sit at our table, you are our guest;—and here's to a better
      acquaintance."  
  The bottle went round rapidly; and Mr. Egerton became quite enchanted with the agreeable
      manners of Sir Rupert Harborough, Bart., and the off-hand pleasant conversation of the
      Honourable Arthur Chichester.  
  It was now past one o'clock; and the baronet proposed to depart.  
  "Which way do you—hic—go?" inquired Egerton.  
  in a tone of gentle remonstrance, as much as to say that there could have been no
      doubt upon the subject. "Will you walk with us?"  
  "Certainly," was the answer: "and we will smoke a—hic—cigar as we go along."  
  The baronet called for the bill, paid it, and led the way from the room, followed by Egerton
      and Chichester, the former of whom insisted upon stopping at the bar to take some soda water,
      as he declared himself to be "half-seas—hic—over."  
  While the three gentlemen were engaged in partaking each of a bottle of the refreshing
      beverage, Sir Rupert felt his coat-sleeve gently pulled from behind; and, turning round, he
      perceived a man whom he had noticed in the coffee-room. Indeed, this was one of the black-legs
      already alluded to as having been engaged in treating Cyprians to supper and champagne.  
  The baronet instantly comprehended the nature of the business which this individual had to
      address him upon; and making him a significant sign, he said to Chichester, "Do you and Mr.
      Egerton go very slowly along the Strand; and I will follow you in a few minutes. I have a word
      to say to this gentleman."  
    Gentleman  , indeed!—one of the most astounding knaves in London! But vice and
      roguery compel the haughty aristocrat to address the lowest ruffian as an equal.  
  Chichester took Egerton's arm, and sauntered out of the house, attended to the door by the
      obsequious master of the establishment—an honour shown only to those who drink champagne or
      claret.  
  "Well, sir, what is it?" asked the baronet, taking the black-leg aside, and speaking to him
      in a whisper.  
  "Only this, Sir Rupert," returned the man: "you've got that youngster in tow, and he'll turn
      out profitable, no doubt. Me and my pal, which is inside the room there, meant to have had him
      somehow or another; and we planted our vimen on him to-night:—but we thought he wasn't drunk
      enough; and then you come in and take him from us. Your friend has nailed him for a bet of
      five hundred, which he's safe to pay; so you must stand someot for my disappointment."  
  "I understand you, sir," said the baronet. "Here are twenty pounds: and if the bet be paid,
      you shall have thirty more. Will that do?"  
  "Thank'ee for the twenty, which is ready," answered the black-leg, consigning the notes to
      his pocket. "Now never mind the other thirty; but make the best you can out of that young
      chap; and all I ask in return is just a word or two about the mill that's coming off."  
  "I don't understand you," said the baronet, colouring.  
  "Come, come—that won't do," continued the man. "But don't be afeard—it's all in the way of
      business that I'm speaking. I see you and Mr. Chichester at a public about three weeks ago
      along with the Birmingham Bruiser; and therefore I knowed you was the friends which deposited
      the money for him, but which kept in the back-ground. So all I want is the office—just a
      single word: is the Bruiser to win or to make a cross of it?"  
  "Really, my good fellow——" stammered the baronet.  
  "Only just one word, so that I may know how to lay my money," persisted the black-leg, "and
      your secret is safe with me. For my own interest it will be so, if you tell me which way it is
      to be."  
  "Can I rely on you?" said Sir Rupert. "But of course I may, if you really mean to bet. Now
      keep the thing dark—and you may win plenty of money. The Bruiser is to   lose  : the odds
      are five to four on him now—and they will be seven to four in his favour before the fight
      comes off. No one suspects that it is to be a cross; and the reports of the Bruiser's training
      are glorious."  
  "Enough—and as mum as a dead man, Sir Rupert," whispered the black-leg.  
  He then returned to the supper-room; and the baronet hastened after his friends.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLI.   CROCKFORD'S.  
  Sir Rupert Harborough, Mr. Albert Egerton, and Mr. Arthur Chichester were walking
      arm-in-arm, and smoking cigars, along the West Strand, about ten minutes after the little
      incident which closed the preceding chapter, when they were met by two tall and
      fashionable-looking gentlemen, who immediately recognised the baronet and Chichester.  
  Both parties stopped; and the two gentlemen were in due course introduced to Mr. Egerton as
      Lord Dunstable and the Honourable Colonel Cholmondeley.  
  By the significant tone and manner of the baronet,—a sort of freemasonry known only to the
      initiated,—both Dunstable and the Colonel were given to understand that a flat had been caught
      in the person of Mr. Albert Egerton; and they immediately received their cue as completely as
      if they had been prompted by half an hour's explanation.  
  "What have you been doing with yourselves, gentlemen, this evening?" inquired Dunstable, as
      they all now proceeded together through Trafalgar Square.  
  "My friends and myself have been supping at the Paradise," answered the baronet,
      carelessly.  
  Mr. Egerton drew himself up an inch higher immediately, although somewhat top-heavy with the
      champagne and cigars;—but he felt quite proud—quite another man, indeed—at being numbered
      amongst Sir Rupert Harborough's   friends  , and at walking familiarly in the company of
      a real lord.  
  "Cholmondeley and I were thinking of looking in at Crockford's before we encountered you,"
      observed Dunstable, forgetting at the moment that himself and friend were proceeding in quite
      a contrary direction when the meeting alluded to took place. "What say you? shall we all go to
      Crockford's?"  
  Finsbury Pavement;—but it appeared as if he had suddenly received a transfusion
      of that aristocracy in whose company he found himself.  
  Already did he make up his mind to cut the good old aunt and the half-dozen of fair
      cousins—her daughters—for ever:—already did he vow never to be seen east of Temple Bar again.
      But then he thought how pleasant it would be to drop in at Finsbury Pavement on some
      Sunday—just at the hour of dinner, which he could make his lunch—and then astound his
      relatives with the mention of his aristocratic acquaintances,—no, his   friends  ,—Lord
      Dunstable, Sir Rupert Harborough, the Honourable Colonel Cholmondeley, and the Honourable
      Arthur Chichester!  
  And what glorious names, too:—nothing plebeian about them—nothing lower than an
      Honourable!  
  Had he known how cheaply Mr. Chichester held his titular decoration, Albert Egerton would
      have perhaps assumed one himself: but he did not entertain the least suspicion concerning the
      matter, and therefore envied the pawnbroker's son almost as much as either of the others.  
  But to return.  
  Lord Dunstable had said, "Shall we all go to Crockford's?"  
  Deep was the suspense of Mr. Egerton until Sir Rupert Harborough replied, "With much
      pleasure. It would be the very thing to teach our young friend Egerton here a little of
      life."  
  "But I am not a member" he murmured, in a disconsolate tone.  
  "  We   are all members, however," said Lord Dunstable; "and can pass you in with ease.
      Let me and Harborough take charge of you."  
  This arrangement was rendered necessary by the fact that Mr. Chichester was   not   a
      member of Crockford's, and would, therefore, require to be introduced by Colonel Cholmondeley.
      Dunstable, Harborough, and Egerton accordingly walked on together; while the Colonel and
      Chichester followed at some little distance, as it was not thought worth while to allow the
      young flat to perceive that the Honourable Arthur Chichester must be smuggled in, as it were,
      as well as himself.  
  In this manner the two parties repaired to the celebrated—or rather notorious—Saint James's
      Club; and Egerton's wildest dream was realized—the acmé of his ambition was reached—the
      portals of Crockford's were darkened by his plebeian shadow!  
  Although excited by wine and by the novelty of his situation, he nevertheless maintained his
      self-possession so far as to avoid any display of vulgar wonderment at the brilliant scene
      upon which he now entered. Leaning on the arms of Lord Dunstable and Sir Rupert Harborough, he
      passed through the marble hall, and was conducted to the coffee-room on the right-hand
      side.  
  There they waited for a few minutes until Cholmondeley and Chichester joined them; and
      Egerton had leisure to admire the superb pier-glasses, the magnificent chandeliers, the
      handsome side-boards, the costly plate, and the other features of that gorgeous apartment.  
  When the Colonel and Chichester made their appearance, the party proceeded to the
      supper-room. There Egerton's eyes were completely dazzled by the brilliant looking-glasses,
      all set in splendid frames with curious designs—the crystal chandeliers—the elegant
      sconces—the superb mouldings—the massive plate—and the immense quantities of cut glasses and
      decanters. The curtains were of the richest damask silk; the walls were hung with choice
      pictures; and the whole magic scene was brilliantly lighted up with innumerable wax candles,
      the lustre of which was reflected in the immense mirrors. In a word, the voluptuousness and
      luxury of that apartment surpassed any thing of the kind that young Egerton had ever before
      witnessed.  
  Seated near one of the fire-places in conversation with an elderly gentleman, was an old
      man, somewhat inclined to stoutness, and very slovenly in his costume. His clothes were good;
      but they appeared to have been tossed upon him with a pitch-fork. His coat hung in large loose
      wrinkles over his rounded shoulders: his trousers appeared to hitch up about the thighs, as if
      through some defect in their cut; two or three of his waistcoat buttons had escaped from their
      holes, or else had not been fastened in them at all; his cravat was limp; and his shirt-frill
      was tumbled. His countenance was pale and sickly, and totally inexpressive of that natural
      astuteness and sharpness which had raised him from the most obscure position to be the
      companion of the noblest peers in the realm. His eyes were of that lack-lustre species which
      usually predicate mental dullness and moral feebleness, but which was at variance with the
      general rule in this instance. In a word, his entire appearance bespoke an individual whose
      health was wasted by long vigils and the want of needful repose and rest.  
  When Lord Dunstable's party entered the room, there were already three or four groups
      occupying supper-tables, on which the French dishes, prepared in Ude's best style steamed,
      with delicious odour.  
  "Will you take supper, Mr. Egerton?" inquired Lord Dunstable.  
  "No, I thank you, my lord," was the reply. "I believe Sir Rupert Harborough informed you
      that we had already been feeding together."  
  It was not true that Egerton had supped with the baronet and Chichester, as the reader
      knows; but Sir Rupert had already said so of his own accord, and Mr. Egerton was not the young
      man to contradict a statement which seemed to place him upon a certain degree of intimacy with
      the aforesaid baronet.  
  "Vot, no supper, my lord?" cried the stout gentleman, rising from his seat near the fire,
      and accosting Dunstable. "Yes—your lordship and your lordship's friends vill do that honour to
      Mosseer Ude's good things."  
  "No, I thank you," said Dunstable, coolly: "we shall not take any supper. We mean to step
      into the next room and amuse ourselves for an hour or so—eh, Mr. Egerton?"  
  And a significant glance, rapid as lightning, from Lord Dunstable's eyes, conveyed his
      meaning to the stout elderly gentleman with the sickly face.  
  "Wery good, my lord. I'll send some nice cool claret in; and the groom-porters is there.
      Valk that vay, my lord: valk that vay, gentlemen;—valk that vay, sir."  
  These last words were addressed to Egerton, and were accompanied by a very low bow.  
  Dunstable took the young man's arm, and led him into the next apartment, where there was a
      French hazard table.  
  "Who is the good-natured old gentleman that spoke so very politely, my lord?"
      inquired Egerton, in a whisper, when they had passed from the supper-room.  
  "That good-natured old gentleman!" cried Dunstable, aloud, and bursting out into a fit of
      laughter so hearty that the tears ran down his cheeks: "why—that's Crockford!"  
  "Crockford!" repeated Egerton, in astonishment; for, although he had denominated the
      presiding genius of the place "a good-natured old gentleman," he had not failed to observe the
      execrable English which he spoke, and was overwhelmed with surprise to learn that the friend
      of nobles was at such open hostilities with grammar.  
  "Yes—that is no other than the great Crockford," continued Lord Dunstable, in an under tone.
      "He once kept a small fishmonger's shop near Temple Bar; and he is now rich enough to buy up
      all the fishmongers' shops in London, Billingsgate to boot. But let us see what is going on
      here."  
  There were only three or four persons lounging about in the Hazard-Room, previously to the
      entrance of Dunstable, Egerton, Harborough, Cholmondeley, and Chichester; and no play was
      going on. The moment, however, those gentlemen made their appearance, the loungers to whom we
      have just alluded, and who were decoy-ducks connected with the establishment, repaired to the
      table and called for dice, while his croupiers took their seats, and the groom-porter
      instantly mounted upon his stool.  
  "What does he get up there for?" asked Egerton, in a whisper.  
  "To announce the   main   and   chance  ," replied Lord Dunstable. "But don't you
      play hazard?"  
  "No, no—that is, not often—not very often," said the foolish young man, afraid of being
      deemed unfashionable in the eyes of his new acquaintances if he admitted that he never yet
      handled a dice-box in his life.  
  "Oh! no—not often—of course not!" exclaimed Dunstable, who saw through the artifice:
      "neither do I. But here comes Crockey with the bank."  
  And, as he spoke, Mr. Crockford made his appearance, holding in his hands an elegant
      rosewood case, which he placed upon the table, and behind which he immediately seated
      himself.  
  The dice-box was now taken by Lord Dunstable, who set ten sovereigns, called "five" as a
      main, and threw seven.  
  "Seven to five!" exclaimed the groom-porter.  
  "Three to two are the odds," said Sir Rupert Harborough to Egerton: "I'll take them of you
      in fifties?"  
  "Done," cried Egerton; and in another moment he had the pleasure of handing over his money
      to the baronet.  
  After Lord Dunstable had thrown out, Mr. Chichester took the box, and Cholmondeley in his
      turn ensnared Egerton into a private bet, which the young man of course lost. But he parted
      from his bank-notes with a very good grace; for, although considerably sobered by the
      soda-water which he had drunk at the Paradise, yet what with the wine and the idea of being at
      that moment beneath Crockford's roof, he was sufficiently intoxicated to be totally reckless
      of his financial affairs.  
  Thus, after having lost a bet to each of his friends, he was easily persuaded to take the
      box, and dispense a little more of his cash for the especial benefit of Mr. Crockford.  
  "I'll set a hundred pounds," cried Egerton, "and call five the main."  
  He then threw ten.  
  "Ten to five!" cried the groom-porter.  
  "Put down three fifties," said Dunstable; "and you have four fifties to three. That's right.
      Now go on."  
  Egerton threw.  
  "Five—trois, deuce—out!" cried the groom-porter.  
  And the young man's money was swept towards the bank in a moment.  
  "Try a   back  , Egerton," exclaimed Chichester.  
  "Well—I don't mind," was the reply—for the waiter had just handed round goblets of the most
      delicious claret, and the lights began to dance somewhat confusedly before the young victim's
      eyes. "I'll set myself again in two hundred; and five's the main."  
  "Five's the main," cried the groom-porter: "deuce, ace—out."  
  And away went the bank-notes to the rosewood case at the head of the table.  
  Colonel Cholmondeley now took the box.  
  "Will you set me a pony, Egerton?" he said.  
  "I should not mind," was the reply, given with a stammer and a blush; "but—to tell you the
      truth—I have no more money about me. If my cheque will do——"  
  Dunstable nodded significantly to Crockford.  
  "Oh! my dear sir," said the old hell-keeper, rising from his seat and shuffling towards
      Egerton, whom he drew partially aside; "I means no offence, but if you vants monies, I shall
      be werry 'appy to lend you a thousand or two, I'm sure."  
  "Take a thousand, Egerton," whispered Lord Dunstable. "You'll have better luck, perhaps,
      with old Crockey's money—there's a spell about it."  
  "I—I," hesitated the young man for a moment, as the thought of his previous losses flashed
      to his mind, even amidst the dazzling influence of Crockford's club and his aristocratic
      acquaintances: "I——"  
  "Glass of claret, sir?" said the waiter, approaching him with a massive silver salver on
      which stood the crystal goblets of ruby wine.  
  "Thank you;"—and Egerton quaffed the aromatic juice to drown the unpleasant ideas which had
      just intruded themselves upon him: then, as he replaced the glass upon the salver, he said,
      "Well, give me a thousand—and I'll have another throw."  
  Sir Rupert Harborough took the box, set himself in ten pounds, and cried, "Nine's the
      main."  
  He then threw.  
  "Six to nine!" exclaimed the groom-porter.  
  "Five to four in favour of the caster," observed Colonel Cholmondeley.  
  "I'll bet the odds," cried Egerton.  
  "'Gainst the rules, sir," said the pompous groom-porter: "you're not a setter this
      time."  
  "Pooh, pooh!" cried Crockford, affecting a jocular chuckle. "The gentleman has lost—let the
      gentleman have a chance of recovering his-self. Take the hodds of the gentleman."  
  "Then I bet five hundred to four in favour of the caster," said Egerton, now growing
      interested in the play as he began to understand it better.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Sir Rupert threw a few times, and at last turned up six and three.  
  "Nine—six, trois—out!" cried the groom-porter.  
  Egerton now insisted upon taking the box again; and in a few minutes he had not a fraction
      left of the thousand pounds which he had borrowed.  
  He turned away from the table and sighed deeply.  
  "Glass of claret, sir?" said the waiter, as composedly as if he were offering the wine
      through civility and not for the systematic purpose of washing away a remorse.  
  Egerton greedily swallowed the contents of a goblet; and when he looked again towards the
      table, he was astounded to find another bundle of Bank notes thrust into his hand by the
      obliging Mr. Crockford, who said in his blandest tones, "I think you vas vaiting, sir, for
      more monies."  
  "Take it—take it, old chap," whispered Dunstable: "you can turn that second thousand into
      ten."  
  "Or into nothing—like the first," murmured Egerton, with a sickly smile: but still he took
      the money.  
  He then played rapidly—wildly—desperately,—drinking wine after each new loss, and inwardly
      cursing his unlucky stars.  
  The second thousand pounds were soon gone; and Dunstable whispered to Crockford, "That's
      enough for to-night. We must make him a member in a day or two—and then you'll give me back
      the little I. O. U. you hold of mine."  
  "Certainly—certainly," answered the hell-keeper. "But mind you doesn't fail to bring him
      again."  
  "Never fear," returned Dunstable;—then turning towards his party, he said aloud, "Well, I
      think it is pretty nearly time to be off."  
  "So do I, my lord——hic," stammered Egerton, catching joyfully at the chance of an immediate
      escape from the place where fortunes were so speedily engulphed;—for tipsy as he now was
      again, the idea of his losses was uppermost in his mind.  
  "Well, my lord—well gentlemen," said Crockford, bowing deferentially; "I wishes you all a
      wery good night—or rather morning. But perhaps your friend, my lord, would just give me his
      little I. O. U.——"  
  "Here, Egerton, my boy—give your I. O. U. for the two thousand——"  
  "I'd ra-a-ther—hic—give my draft," returned the young man.  
  But, as his hand trembled and his visual faculties were duplicated for the time, he was ten
      minutes ere he could fill up a printed cheque in a proper manner.  
  The business was, however, accomplished at last, and the party withdrew, amidst the bows of
      decoy-ducks, croupiers, waiters, groom-porters, door-porters, and all the menials of the
      establishment.  
  William Crockford was the founder of the Club which so long bore his name, and which was
      only broken up a short time ago.  
  He began life as a fishmonger; and when he closed his shop of an evening, was accustomed to
      repair to some of the West End hells, where he staked the earnings of the day. Naturally of a
      shrewd and far-seeing disposition, he was well qualified to make those calculations which
      taught him the precise chances of the hazard-table; and a lucky bet upon the St. Leger
      suddenly helped him to a considerable sum of ready money, with which he was enabled to extend
      his ventures at the gaming-house.  
  In due time he gave up the fish-shop, and joined some hellites in partnership at the West
      End. Fortune continued to favour him; and he was at length in a condition to open No. 50, St.
      James's Street, as a Club.  
  The moment the establishment was ready for the reception of members, announcements of the
      design were made in the proper quarters; and it was advertised that all persons belonging to
      other Clubs were eligible to have their names enrolled   without ballot   as members of
      the St. James's. The scheme succeeded beyond even the most sanguine hopes of Crockford
      himself; and hundreds of peers, nobles, and gentlemen, who were fond of play, but who dared
      not frequent the common gaming-houses, gladly became supporters and patrons of the new
      Club.  
  In the course of a short time No. 51 was added to the establishment; and No. 52 was
      subsequently annexed. The rules and regulations were made more stringent, because several
      notorious black-legs had obtained admission; but, until the very last, any member was
      permitted to introduce a stranger for one evening only, with the understanding that such
      visitor should be balloted for in due course. The entrance-fee was fixed at twenty guineas a
      year; and an annual payment of ten guineas was required from every member.  
  The three houses, thrown into one, were soon found to be too small for the accommodation of
      the members: they were accordingly pulled down, and the present magnificent building was
      erected on their site. It is impossible to say how much money was expended upon this princely
      structure; but we can assert upon undoubted authority that the internal decorations alone cost
      ninety-four thousand pounds!  
  The real nature of this most scandalous and abominable establishment soon transpired.
      Hundreds of young men, who entered upon life with fortune and every brilliant prospect to
      cheer them, were immolated upon the infernal altar of that aristocratic pandemonium. Many of
      them committed suicide:—others perpetrated forgeries, to obtain the means of endeavouring to
      regain what they had lost, and ended their days upon the scaffold;—and not a few became
      decoy-ducks and bonnets in the service of the Arch-demon himself. Even noblemen of high rank
      did not hesitate to fill these ignominious offices; and for every flat whom they took to the
      house, they received a recompense proportionate to the spoil that was obtained. To keep up
      appearances with their fellow members, these ruined lacqueys of the great hellite actually
      paid their subscriptions with the funds which he furnished them for the purpose.  
  So infamous became the reputation of Crockford's, that it was deemed necessary to devise
      means to place the establishment apparently upon the same footing with other Clubs. A
      committee of noblemen and gentlemen (what precious   noblemen   and   gentlemen  ,
      good reader!) was formed to administer the affairs of the institution; but this proceeding was
      a mere blind. The Committee's jurisdiction extended only to the laws affecting the
      introduction of new members, the expulsion of unruly ones, and the choice of the wines laid in
      for the use of the Club. The French Hazard Bank and all matters relating to the gambling-rooms
      were under the sole control of Crockford, who reaped enormous advantages from that
      position.  
  Thus was it that a vulgar and illiterate man—a professed gambler—a wretch who lived upon the
      ruin of the inexperienced and unwary, as well as on the vices of the hoary sinner,—thus was he
      enabled to make noble lords and high-born gentlemen his vile tools, and thrust them forward as
      the ostensible managers of a damnable institution, the infamous profit of which went into his
      own purse!  target="#ENG18460_N136" [36]    
  
  CHAPTER CCXLII.   THE AUNT.  
  Albert Egerton now became the constant companion of the fashionable acquaintances whom he
      had accidentally picked up—or rather, who had cunningly picked up   him  .  
  He dined with them at Long's;—he formed with them parties to eat fish at Greenwich and
      Blackwall;—he became a member of Crockford's;—and every day he lost considerable sums to them
      in one shape of gambling or another.  
  They had ascertained that he was possessed, on coming of age a few weeks previously, of the
      handsome fortune of sixty thousand pounds; and they determined to appropriate the best portion
      of it to their own uses.  
  The Honourable Colonel Cholmondeley most obligingly acted as his Mentor in the choice of
      magnificent furnished apartments in Stratton Street;—Lord Dunstable was kind enough to
      purchase two thorough-breds for him, the price being   only   eight hundred guineas—a
      little transaction by which his lordship quietly pocketed three hundred as his own
      commission;—Mr. Chichester thought it no trouble to select a rare assortment of wines at one
      of the most fashionable merchants of the West End, and actually carried his good-nature so far
      as to see them carefully stowed away in the young dupe's cellar;—and Sir Rupert Harborough
      generously surrendered to him his cast-off mistress.  
  The four friends also conceived so violent an attachment towards Mr. Egerton, that they
      never lost sight of him. They managed matters so well that he had no time for compunctious
      reflections; for they invariably made him drunk ere they took him home to his bed; and when he
      awoke in the morning, the obliging Mr. Chichester was sure to be already there to give him
      sherry and soda-water.  
  Then Harborough would drop in to breakfast; and while Egerton was performing the duties of
      the toilette, Dunstable and Cholmondeley were sure to make their appearance.  
  Perhaps Egerton would complain of headach.  
  "Don't talk of headach, my dear fellow," Lord Dunstable exclaimed: "you were quite sober
      last night in comparison with me. My losses were terrific! A thousand to Cholmondeley—fifteen
      hundred to Chichester—and double as much to Harborough."  
  "It is very strange that I seldom win any thing," observed Egerton on one of these
      occasions: "and yet we can't all lose. Some one must be the gainer."  
  "Every one has his turn, my dear boy," cried Harborough. "But what shall we do to-day? Any
      thing going on at Tattersall's, Colonel?"  
  "Nothing particular," was the reply, lazily delivered. "Suppose we have some claret and
      cigars for an hour or two, and then play a rub of billiards till dinner-time. Of course we all
      dine together this evening."  
  "Oh! of course," chimed in Lord Dunstable. "What do you think the Duke of Highgate said of
      us all yesterday, Egerton?"  
  "I know not what he could have said of you," was the answer; "but I am sure he could have
      said nothing of me—for he cannot be aware that there is such a person in existence."  
  "Nonsense, my dear fellow!" exclaimed Dunstable: "you are as well known now in the
      fashionable world as any one of us. Every body is speaking of you; and it will be your own
      fault if you do not marry an heiress. We must introduce you at Almack's in due course. But I
      was speaking about my friend the Duke. His Grace met me yesterday as I was on my way to join
      you all at the Clarendon: and when I told him where I was going, he said with a laugh, 'Ah! I
      call you five the   Inseparables  !'—and away he went."  
  flattery thus constantly poured in his ear; and as he really possessed a handsome
      person, he saw no difficulty in carrying out the idea of marrying an heiress.  
  And this same belief has proved fatal to thousands and thousands of young men placed in the
      same situation as Albert Egerton. They pursue a career of reckless extravagance and
      dissipation, buoying themselves up with the hope that when their present resources shall have
      passed away, it will be the easiest thing possible to rebuild their fortunes by means of
      marriage.  
  A month slipped away, and Egerton found himself on intimate terms with many "men about
      town"—one of the most popular members at Crockford's—a great favourite in certain titled but
      not over-particular families, where there were portionless daughters to "get off," and at
      whose house Lord Dunstable enjoyed the   entrée  —and the pride and delight (as
      he believed) of his four dear friends who had done so much for him!  
  And sure enough they had done a great deal in his behalf; for he had already sold out twenty
      thousand pounds, or one third of his entire fortune; but he was purposely kept in such an
      incessant whirl of excitement, pleasure, dissipation, and bustle, that he had no time for
      reflection.  
  One morning—it was about eleven o'clock—the young man awoke with aching head and feverish
      pulse, after the usual night's debauch; and it happened that none of his dear friends had yet
      arrived.  
  Egerton rang the bell for some white wine and soda-water to assuage the burning thirst which
      oppressed him; and when his livery-boy, or "tiger," appeared with the refreshing beverage, the
      young rake learnt that a lady was waiting to see him in the drawing-room.  
  "A lady!" exclaimed Egerton: "who the deuce can she be?"  
  "She is a stout, elderly lady, sir," said the tiger.  
  "And did she give no name?" inquired Egerton, beginning to suspect who his visitor was.  
  "No, sir," was the answer. "I assured her that you were not up yet, and that you never
      received any one at so early an hour; but she declared that you would see   her  ; and I
      was obliged to show her into the drawing-room."  
  "Ah! it must be my aunt, then!" muttered Egerton to himself. "Bring me up some hot-water
      this minute, you young rascal:"—fashionable upstarts always vent their annoyances upon their
      servants;—"and then go and tell the lady that I will be with her in five minutes."  
  The tiger disappeared—returned with the hot-water—and then departed once more, to execute
      the latter portion of his master's orders.  
  Egerton felt truly wretched and ashamed of himself when he surveyed his pale cheeks and
      haggard eyes in the glass, and thought of the course which he had lately been pursuing. But
      then he remembered the flattery of his fashionable friends, and soothed his remorseful
      feelings by the idea that he was on intimate terms with all the "best men about town," was a
      member of Crockford's, and had the   entrée   of several families of
      distinction.  
  Moreover, when he was shaved and washed,—oiled and perfumed,—and attired in a clean shirt,
      black trousers, red morocco slippers, and an elegant dressing-gown, his appearance was so much
      more satisfactory to himself that he felt quite equal to the task of encountering his
      relative.  
  He accordingly proceeded, with a smile upon his lips and an easy unconstrained manner, to
      the drawing-room, where a respectable, motherly-looking, stout old lady was anxiously awaiting
      him.  
  "My dear Albert," she exclaimed, as he entered the apartment, "what have you been doing with
      yourself this last month, that you never come near us—no, not even on Sundays, as you used to
      do?"  
  And, while she spoke, the good-natured woman made a motion as if she were anxious to embrace
      her nephew; but he—well aware that it is improper to give way to one's feelings in the
      fashionable world—retreated a step or two, and graciously allowed his aunt to shake the tip of
      his fore-finger.  
  "Lor, Albert, how strange you are!" exclaimed the baffled relative. "But do tell me," she
      continued, quietly resuming her seat, "what you   have   been doing with yourself. Why
      did you leave your nice little lodging in Budge Row? why do you never come near us? why have
      you moved up into this part of the town? and why didn't you even write to tell us where you
      was living? If it hadn't been for Storks, your stock-broker, I shouldn't have known how to
      find you out; but he gave me your address."  
  "Storks!" murmured Egerton, turning very pale. "Did he tell you—any thing——"  
  "Oh! yes," continued the aunt, speaking with great volubility; "he told me that you had sold
      out a power of money;—but when he saw that I was annoyed, he assured me that it could only be
      for some good purpose. And it is so, Albert dear—isn't it?"  
  "Certainly—to be sure, aunt—Oh! certainly," stammered the young man, as he glanced uneasily
      towards the door.  
  "Well, now—I am glad of that, Albert," said the old lady, apparently relieved of a serious
      misgiving. "I said to your eldest cousin Susannah Rachel, says I, '  Albert is a good young
       man—quiet—steady—and firm in his resolve to follow in the footsteps of his dear lamented
       father  ':—here the aunt wiped her eyes;—'  and  ,' says I, '  if he has sold out
       fifteen or twenty thousand pounds, depend, upon it he has bought a nice snug little estate;
       and he means to surprise us all by asking us to dine with him some Sunday at his
       country-house.  ' Am I right, Albert dear?"  
  "Oh! quite right, aunt," exclaimed the young man, overjoyed to find that his dissipated
      courses were unknown to his relatives. "And that was the reason why I did not go near you—nor
      yet write to you. But have a little patience—and, in a few weeks, I promise you and my cousins
      a pleasant day——"  
  "Well, well—I don't want to penetrate into your little secrets, you know," interrupted the
      aunt. "But how late you get up. Why, it is near twelve, I declare; and I rose this morning
      before day-light."  
  "I was detained last evening——"  
  "Ah! by your man of business, no doubt," cried the voluble old lady. "Many papers to read
      over and sign—contracts to make—leases to consider—deeds to study—Oh! I understand it all; and
      I am delighted, Albert, to find you so prudent."  
  double-knock at that moment reverberated through the house. "But I am afraid—that
      is, I think—some one is coming, who——"  
  "Oh! never mind me, dear Al," observed the old lady. "I shall just rest myself for half an
      hour or so, before I take the omnibus back to the Pavement."  
  "Certainly, my dear aunt—but——"  
  The door opened; and Lord Dunstable entered the room.  
  "Ah! my dear Egerton!" he exclaimed, rushing forward, with out-stretched hand, to greet his
      young friend: but, perceiving the lady, who had risen from the sofa, he stopped short, and
      bowed to her with distant politeness—for it struck him at the moment that she might be a
      washerwoman, or the mother of Egerton's servant, or a shirt-maker, or some such kind of
      person.  
  "How d'ye do, sir?" said the aunt, in acknowledgment of the bow; and, resuming her seat, she
      observed, "I find it very warm for the time of year. But then I was scrooged up in an omnibus
      for near an hour—all packed as close as herrings in a barrel; and that's not pleasant—is it,
      sir?"  
  "By no means, madam," answered Dunstable, in a cold tone; while Egerton bit his lips—at a
      loss what to do.  
  "Well—it is   not   pleasant," continued the garrulous lady. "And now, when I think of
      it, I have a call to make in Aldgate to-day; and so, when I leave here, I shall take a
      Whitechapel 'bus. Nasty place that Aldgate, sir?"  
  "Really, madam, I never heard of it until now," said Lord Dunstable, with marvellous
      stiffness of manner.  
  "Never heard of Aldgate, sir?" literally shouted the lady. "Why, you must be very green in
      London, then."  
  "I know no place east of Temple Bar, madam," was the cold reply. "I am aware that there
         are   human habitations on the other side; and I could perhaps find my way to the
      Bank—but nothing more, madam, I can assure you."  
  And he turned towards Egerton, who was pretending to look out of the window.  
  "Well—I never!" exclaimed the lady, now eyeing the nobleman with sovereign contempt.  
  "My dear aunt," said Egerton, desperately resolved to put an end if possible to this awkward
      scene; "allow me to introduce my friend Lord Dunstable: Lord Dunstable—Mrs. Bustard."  
  "Oh! delighted at the honour!" cried the nobleman, instantly conquering his surprise at this
      announcement of the relationship existing between his young friend and the vulgar lady who
      complained of having been "scrooged up in an omnibus:"—"proud, madam, to form your
      acquaintance!"  
  And his features instantly beamed with smiles—a relaxation from his former chilling manner,
      which appeared like a sudden transition from the north pole to the tropics.  
  On her side, the aunt had started up from the sofa, quite electrified by the mention of the
      magic words—"  Lord Dunstable  ;" and there she stood, cruelly embarrassed, and bobbing
      up and down in a rapid series of curtseys at every word which the nobleman addressed to her.
      For this was the first time in her life that she had ever exchanged a syllable with a Lord,
      unless it were with a Lord Mayor on one or two occasions—but that was only "cakes and
      gingerbread" in comparison with the excitement of forming the acquaintance of a real Lord
      whose title was not the temporary splendour of a single year.  
  "I really must apologise, my dear madam," said the nobleman, now speaking in the most
      amiable manner possible, "for having affected ere now not to know anything of the City. I
      cannot fancy how I could have been so foolish. As for the Mansion House, it is the finest
      building in the world; and Lombard Street is the very focus of attraction. With Aldgate I am
      well acquainted; and a pleasant spot it is, too. The butchers' shops in the neighbourhood must
      be quite healthy for consumptive people. Then you have Whitechapel, madam;—fine—wide—and open:
      the Commercial Road—delightful proof of the industry of this great city;—and, best of all,
      there is the Albion in Aldersgate Street,—where, by the by, Egerton," he added, turning
      towards his friend, "we will all dine to-day, if you like."  
  "Oh! yes—certainly," said Egerton, smiling faintly.  
  But Dunstable was too good a judge to show that he even perceived the honest vulgarity of
      his friend's aunt: he accordingly seated himself near her upon the sofa, and rattled away, in
      the most amiable manner possible, upon the delights of the City. He then listened with great
      apparent interest to the long story which the old lady told him,—how she kept a haberdashery
      warehouse on the Pavement, and did a very tidy business,—how she had five daughters all
      "well-edicated gals as could be, and which was Albert's own first cousins,"—how her late
      husband had once been nearly an alderman and quite a sheriff,—how she and her deceased partner
      dined with the Lord Mayor "seven years ago come next November,"—how she had been lately
      plundered of three hundred pounds' worth of goods by a French Marchioness, who turned out to
      be an English swindler,—and how she strongly suspected that young Tedworth Jones, the only son
      of the great tripe-man in Bishopsgate Street Without, was making up to her third daughter,
      Clarissa Jemima.  
  To all this, we say, Lord Dunstable listened with the deepest interest; and, at the
      conclusion, he expressed a hope that if the anticipated match did come off between Mr.
      Tedworth Jones and Miss Clarissa Jemima Bustard, he should have the honour of receiving an
      invitation on the happy occasion.  
  Even Egerton himself was rendered more comfortable by the distinguished politeness with
      which his aunt was treated; but he was not the less delighted when she rose and took her
      departure.  
  As soon as the door was shut behind her, Dunstable hastened to observe, "There goes an
      estimable woman—I can vouch for it! What would England's commerce be without such industrious,
      plodding, intelligent persons as your aunt? Egerton, my boy, you ought to be proud of her—as I
      am of her acquaintance. But there is Chichester's knock, I'll swear!"  
  In a few moments the gentleman alluded to made his appearance; and the scene with the aunt
      was soon forgotten.  
  The day was passed in the usual profitless manner; and the greater portion of the night
      following was spent in gaming and debauchery.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLIII.   THE FIGHT.—THE RUINED GAMESTER.  
  The day on which the fight was to take place between the Birmingham Bruiser and the
      Haggerstone Pet, now drew near.  
  Great was the excitement of the sporting world on the occasion; and all those, who were not
      in the secret of the "cross," felt confident that the Bruiser must win.  
  Indeed the odds had risen in his favour from five to four, to eleven to five. There were
      numerous betters, and the takers were willing.  
  The following paragraph appeared in   Bell's Life  , on the Sunday preceding the
      contest:—  
  "  The Approaching Fight.  —The mill between the Birmingham Bruiser and the Haggerstone
      Pet is to come off on Thursday next, at Wigginton Bottom, near Snodsnook Park, in Essex. We
      are assured by persons who have seen the Bruiser in training at Bexley Heath, and the Pet at
      Cheshunt, that the men are in first-rate condition, and full of confidence. The Bruiser has
      vowed that if he is beaten in this fight, he will retire altogether from the Ring; but his
      friends do not for a moment apprehend that the result will be such as to occasion such a step.
      The admirers of this truly British sport have begun to flock to the neighbourhood of the scene
      of action; and every bed at Wigginton is already let. In fact we know of two guineas having
      been offered and refused for a mere 'shake-down' in the tap of the   Green Lion  , at
      that beautiful little village. The odds in favour of the Bruiser have risen within these few
      days to eleven to five. The Bruiser's backers are not known: they are most likely some swell
      nobs, who prefer keeping out of sight. Some thousands of pounds will change hands next
      Thursday."  
  On the appointed day Lord Dunstable drove his friends Egerton, Chichester, Harborough, and
      Cholmondeley, down to Wigginton in his four-in-hand—an equipage that he had only very recently
      set up, and which had been purchased and was still maintained by the coin extracted from the
      pocket of the credulous son of the deceased outfitter.  
  The scene of the contest was thronged with as miscellaneous a collection of persons as could
      possibly be gathered together. There were specimens of all classes, from the peer down to the
      beggar. The fashionable exquisite was jostled by the greasy butcher;—the sporting tradesman
      was crushed between two sweeps;—the flat was knocked down by one black-leg and picked up by
      another;—the country-squire was elbowed by the horse-chaunter;—the newspaper reporter was
      practically overwhelmed by the influence of the "press;"—and, in short, there was such a
      squeezing that many who had paid a guinea to be conveyed thither, would have gladly given ten
      to be removed away again.  
  Presently a tremendous shout of applause welcomed the arrival of Lord Snodsnook's carriage,
      from which leapt the Haggerstone Pet, who was immediately surrounded by his friends; and
      shortly afterwards a "slap-up turn-out," "tooled" by a sporting publican of the West End, to
      whom it belonged, brought the Birmingham Bruiser upon the scene of action, amidst renewed
      vociferations and another rush of supporters.  
  The preliminaries being all settled, the combatants stripped, entered the ring, attended by
      their seconds, and then shook hands. The newspapers subsequently declared that no two
      pugilists ever "peeled" better, nor seemed more confident.  
  It is not our purpose, however, to dwell upon the disgusting exhibition:—those brutal
      displays are loathsome to us, and, to our mind, are a disgrace to the English character.  
  Suffice it to say, that the Birmingham Bruiser was quite able to beat the Haggerstone Pet,
      if he had so chosen: but he had made his appearance there on purpose to lose. For upwards of
      twenty rounds, however, he secured to himself the advantage; and the general impression
      amongst the uninitiated was that he must win. Those who were in the secret accordingly bet
      heavily upon the Haggerstone Pet; and we need hardly say that, as Egerton backed the Bruiser,
      he found several of his dear friends perfectly willing to accept the odds at his hands.  
  By the twenty-fifth round, the Bruiser began to grow "groggy," and to hit at random. Of
      course this was mere pretence on his part: but it gave the Pet renewed courage; and in
      proportion as the latter acquired confidence, the former seemed to lose ground rapidly.  
  Many of the backers of the Bruiser now exhibited elongating countenances; and, when that
      champion was thrown heavily at the thirty-first round, his former supporters manifested a
      desperate inclination to "hedge." Egerton, however, remained confident in favour of the
      Bruiser; but then he knew nothing about prize-fighting—it was the first combat of the kind he
      had ever seen in his life—and, even if he had been inclined to hedge his bets, he would have
      found no persons willing at this stage of the proceeding to afford him the chance.  
  The Bruiser played his game so well, that even the most experienced in the pugilistic
      science were unable to detect the fraud that was being practised upon them; and thousands were
      deceived into a belief that he was really doing his best to win.  
  At the fortieth round he fell, apparently through sheer weakness; and it was highly
      ludicrous to behold the discomfited looks of those who had bet most heavily upon him.  
  He stood up for three rounds more; but time was called in vain for the forty-fourth—and the
      Haggerstone Pet was declared to be the conqueror.  
  The Bruiser seemed to be in a horrible plight: for some time he remained motionless upon the
      ground, obstinately resisting all the efforts that were made to recover him, until one of his
      friends thrust a huge pinch of snuff up his nose—and then he was compelled to sneeze.  
  He was now borne to the   Green Lion   at Wigginton, and put to bed. A surgeon in Sir
      Rupert Harborough's pay volunteered his services to attend upon him; and, although the Bruiser
      had nothing more serious the matter with him than a few bruises and a couple of black eyes,
      the medical gentlemen assured the multitudes who flocked to the inn, that "the poor fellow
      could not possibly be worse." A great deal of medicine was also purchased at the village
      apothecary's shop; but it was all quietly thrown away by the surgeon, and the Bruiser was
      regaled, in the privacy of his chamber, with a good cut off a sirloin of beef and a bottle of
      Port-wine.  
  Lord Dunstable, Mr. Chichester, Colonel Cholmondeley, and Sir Rupert Harborough divided
      equally amongst themselves the money won by this "cross;"—they sacked a thousand pounds each,
      Egerton alone having lost fifteen hundred upon the fight.  
  The five friends returned to town in his lordship's four-in-hand, and dined that
      evening at Limmer's, where Egerton speedily drowned the recollection of his heavy losses in
      bumpers of champagne and claret.  
  The party afterwards repaired to Crockford's; but just as they were ascending the steps,
      they beheld one of the waiters in altercation with a person of emaciated form, haggard
      countenance, and shabby attire, but who had evidently seen better—far better days; for his
      language was correct, and even beneath his rags there was an air of gentility which no tatters
      could conceal—no penury altogether subdue.  
  "Come, Major, none of this nonsense—it won't do here," said the waiter, in an insolent tone.
      "Be off with you—there's gentlemen coming in."  
  "I care not who hears me!" cried the person thus addressed: "Mr. Crockford is within—I know
      he is; and I must see him."  
  "No—he's not here—and he never comes now," returned the waiter. "If you don't make yourself
      scarce, I'll call a policeman. Pray walk in, my lord—walk in, gentlemen."  
  These last words were addressed to Lord Dunstable and his party; but, instead of entering
      the Club, they remained on the steps to hear the issue of the dispute.  
  "Call a policeman—oh! do," ejaculated the Major. "I wish you would—for I should at least
      have a roof over my head to-night; whereas I now stand the chance of wandering about the
      streets. But you dare not give me in charge—no, you dare not! You know that I should expose
      all the infamy of this den before the magistrate to-morrow morning. However—in one word, will
      you deliver my message to Mr. Crockford?"  
  "I tell you that he is not here," repeated the waiter, insolently.  
  "Did you give him my note?" asked the Major, in an imploring tone.  
  "Yes—and he said there was no answer," replied the menial, placing his thumbs in the
      arm-holes of his waistcoat.  
  "My God! no answer for   me  !" cried the miserable man, in a voice of bitter despair.
      "No answer for   me  —and I lost so much in his house! Surely—surely he could spare a
      guinea from the thousands which he has received of me? I only asked him for a guinea—and he
      does not condescend to answer me!"  
  "Well, I tell you what it is," said the waiter, perceiving that not only Lord Dunstable's
      party lingered upon the steps, but that there was also another listener—a gentleman in a
      military cloak—standing at a short distance:—"if you will go away now, I'll give you
      half-a-crown out of my own pocket, and I will undertake that Mr. Crockford shall send you up a
      sovereign to-morrow."  
  "God knows with what reluctance I accept that miserable trifle from   you  !" exclaimed
      the unhappy man, tears rolling down his cheeks, as he extended his hand for the pittance
      offered.  
  At the same instant Egerton, who was much moved by all he had just overheard, drew forth his
      purse with the intention of presenting five sovereigns to the poor Major: but the waiter,
      perceiving his intention, hastened to drop the half-crown into the miserable wretch's palm
      with a view to get rid of him at once;—for the domestic wisely argued to himself that every
      guinea which Egerton might give away would be so much lost to his master's bank up-stairs.  
  The half-crown piece had just touched the Major's hand, when the individual in the cloak
      sprang forward—seized it—threw it indignantly in the servant's face—and, dragging the Major
      away from the door, exclaimed, "No—never shall it be said that a soldier and an officer
      received alms from an insolent lacquey! Mine be the duty of relieving your wants."  
  And, leading the Major a few paces up the street, the stranger bade him enter a carriage
      that was waiting, and into which he immediately followed him.  
  The servant closed the door, received some whispered instructions from his master, and got
      up behind the vehicle, which immediately rolled away at a rapid pace.  
  But to return to Lord Dunstable and his party.  
  The moment that the individual in the cloak sprang forward in the manner described, and the
      light of the hall lamps streamed full upon his countenance, both Harborough and Chichester
      uttered ejaculations of surprise, and hastened precipitately into the Club, followed by
      Dunstable, Egerton, and Cholmondeley.  
  "What's the matter?" demanded Dunstable, when the baronet and Chichester were overtaken on
      the stairs: "and who's that person?"  
  "The Prince of Montoni," replied Harborough, whose countenance was very pale.  
  "Yes," said Chichester, hastily; "we know him well—and, as he is very particular in his
      notions, we did not wish him to see us coming here. But, enough of that—let us adjourn to the
      Hazard Room."  
  The conversation between the Major and the waiter, displaying as it did a fearful instance
      of the results of gaming, had made a deep impression upon Albert Egerton; and for some time he
      was thoughtful and serious.  
  But Dunstable attacked him so adroitly with the artillery of flattery—the waiter offered him
      claret so frequently—the excitement of the play appeared so agreeable—and the fear of losing
      ground in the good opinion of his aristocratic acquaintances was so strong in his mind, that
      he seized the dice-box, staked his money, lost as usual, and was conducted home in a state of
      intoxication at about half-past three in the morning.  
  In the meantime the unfortunate Major Anderson—for such was his name—had received
      substantial proofs of that goodness of heart which prompted the Prince of Montoni to espouse
      his cause against the brutal insolence of Crockford's waiter.  
  Immediately after the carriage rolled away from the corner of St. James's Street, Richard
      drew forth his pocket-book, and placed a bank-note, accompanied by his card, in the Major's
      hand.  
  which have so reduced a gentleman of your rank and station."  
  "Oh! sir—whoever you are," exclaimed the Major—for it was too dark to permit him to read his
      benefactor's card,—"how can I ever sufficiently thank you for this noble—this generous
      conduct? But think not that your bounty will have been bestowed in vain—think not that I would
      risk one sixpence of this sum—whatever be its amount—at the gaming-table! Oh! my God—who would
      ever play again, that had been in such misery as I? No, sir—no: I would rather throw myself
      headlong from one of the bridges into the silent waters of the Thames, than enter the
      gamblers' den!"  
  "Then let me tell you frankly," said Markham, much moved by the touching sincerity of the
      ruined officer's tone and manner,—"let me tell you frankly that my object, in wishing to see
      you again, was to satisfy myself that you had in reality abjured the detestable vice which has
      beggared you, and that you are deserving of all I am prepared to do for your benefit."  
  "To-morrow afternoon, sir," answered the Major, "I will take the liberty of writing to you;
      for by that time I shall once more be the possessor of some humble lodging. And now, with your
      permission, I will alight here."  
  Richard pulled the check-string; and the carriage stopped in Oxford Street.  
  The Major alighted—pressed our hero's hand fervently—and hurried away.  
  When the carriage had disappeared, and the poor man's feelings were somewhat composed, he
      stopped beneath a lamp to learn the name of his benefactor.  
  "The Prince of Montoni!" he exclaimed joyfully: "oh! then I am saved—I am saved; he will
      never let me want again! All London rings with the fame of his goodness: his whole time seems
      to be passed in benefiting his fellow-creatures! Wherever poverty is known to exist, thither
      does he send in secret his unostentatious charity! But such good deeds cannot remain
      concealed; and I—I for one will proclaim to all who have spurned me in my bitter need, that a
      stranger has saved me—and that stranger a great Prince whose shoes they are not worthy to
      touch!"  
  Such were the words which the grateful man uttered aloud in the open street; but when he
      glanced at the bank-note, and found himself suddenly possessed of fifty pounds, he burst into
      a flood of tears—tears of the most heart-felt joy!  
  And Richard returned home with the satisfaction of having done another charitable action:—we
      say   another  , because charitable deeds with him were far more common than even
      promises on the part of many richer men.  
  But Markham delighted in doing good. Often of an evening, would he repair into London, and,
      leaving his carriage at the corner of some street, wander about the immediate neighbourhood to
      succour the poor houseless wretches whom he might meet, and to discover new cases in which his
      bounty might be usefully bestowed. Without hesitation—without disgust, did he penetrate into
      the wretched abodes of want—go down even into the cellars, or climb up into the attics, where
      poverty was to be relieved and joy to be shed into the despairing heart.  
  And when he returned home, after such expeditions as these, to his beloved wife and darling
      child,—for he was now a father—the happy father of a lovely boy, whom he had named Alberto,—he
      found his reward in the approving smiles of the Princess, even if he had not previously reaped
      an adequate recompense in the mere fact of doing so much good.  
  Indeed, there was not a happier house in the world than Markham Place;—for not only was the
      felicity of Richard complete—save in respect to his anxiety concerning his long-lost brother
      Eugene,—but that of his sister was also ensured. United to Mario Bazzano, Katherine and her
      husband resided at the mansion—beneath the same roof where Mr. Monroe and Ellen also continued
      to enjoy a home!  
  But let us continue the thread of our narrative.  
  True to his promise, Major Anderson wrote on the following day to acquaint our hero with his
      place of abode, and to renew the expression of his most fervent gratitude for the generous
      conduct he had experienced at the hands of the Prince of Montoni.  
  In the evening Richard proceeded to the humble but comfortable lodging which the Major now
      occupied in the neighbourhood of the Tottenham Court Road; and from the lips of the individual
      whom his bounty had restored to comparative happiness, did our hero learn the following
      terrible narrative of a Gambler's Life.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLIV.   THE HISTORY OF A GAMESTER.  
  "I was born in 1790, and am consequently in my fifty-third year. My father was a merchant,
      who married late in life, upon his retirement from business; and I was an only child. Your
      Highness may therefore well imagine that I was spoilt by my affectionate parents, whose
      mistaken tenderness would never permit me to be thwarted in any inclination which it was
      possible for them to gratify. Instead of being sent to school at a proper age, I was kept at
      home, and a master attended daily to give me instruction in the rudiments of education; but as
      I preferred play to learning, and found that if I pleaded headach my mother invariably
      suggested the propriety of giving me a holiday, I practised that subterfuge so constantly,
      that my master's place was a sinecure, and I could scarcely read two words correctly when I
      was ten years old.  
  through a merely imitative motive, gradually became a pleasure and delight.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "I had just completed my sixteenth year, and was one afternoon passing the half-holiday at
      pitch and toss with several other boys in a remote corner of the spacious play-ground, when an
      usher came to inform me that my father had just arrived, and was waiting in the parlour.
      Thither I accordingly repaired; and in a few minutes after I had been closeted with my parent,
      I learnt that he had just purchased an ensign's commission for me in the —th regiment of Light
      Infantry, and that I was to return home with him that very day to prepare my outfit previously
      to joining the corps. Thus was I suddenly transformed from a raw school-boy into an officer in
      His Majesty's service.  
  "Two months afterwards I joined my regiment, which was quartered at Portsmouth. My father
      had intimated his intention of allowing me three hundred a-year in addition to my pay: I was
      therefore enabled to keep a couple of horses, and to cut a better figure in all respects than
      any other subaltern in the regiment. The lieutenant-colonel, who was in command of the
      regiment, and whose name was Beaumont, was a young man of scarcely eight-and-twenty; but his
      father was the member for a county, a stanch supporter of the Tories, and therefore possessed
      of influence sufficient to push his son on with astonishing rapidity. It was a ridiculous—nay,
      a cruel thing to see lieutenants of five or six-and-thirty, captains of eight-and-forty, and
      the major of nearly sixty, under the command of this colonel, who was a mere boy in comparison
      with them. But so it was—and so it is still with many, many regiments in the service; and the
      fact is most disgraceful to our military system.  
  humour underwent an immediate change, and he received me with marked
      politeness.  
  "I had not been many weeks in the regiment when I discovered that several of the officers
      were accustomed to meet in each other's rooms for the purpose of private play; and I speedily
      became one of the party. The colonel himself joined these assemblies, which took place under
      the guise of '  wine-parties  ;' and though the play was not high, the losses were
      frequently large enough to cause serious embarrassment to those officers whose means were not
      extensive. Thus they were very often compelled to absent themselves from the wine-parties for
      several weeks until they received fresh supplies from their agents or friends; whereas those
      who had capital sufficient to continue playing, were sometimes enabled to retrieve in the long
      run what they had previously lost. This was the case with the colonel, myself, and two or
      three others; and we soon obtained the credit of being the only winners. Such a reputation was
      by no means an enviable one; for though not a suspicion existed against the fairness of our
      play, we were looked upon with aversion by those officers who never joined the parties, and
      with something like hatred by those who lost to us. We stood in the light of individuals who
      made use of the advantages of superior income to prey upon those of far more slender means;
      and although there was no open hostility towards us, yet we certainly made many private
      enemies. For the very atmosphere in which gamblers live is tainted by the foulness of their
      detestable vice!  
  "One evening—when I had been about a year in the regiment—it was my turn to give the
      wine-party in my room; but at the usual hour of meeting no one made his appearance save the
      colonel. 'Well,' he said, laughing, 'I suppose we cleaned the others out so effectually last
      night, that they have not a feather left to fly with. But that need not prevent us from having
      a game together.'—I readily assented, for cards and dice already possessed extraordinary
      fascinations in my eyes; and we sat down to   écarté  . At first we played for
      small stakes, and drank our wine very leisurely; but as I won nearly every game, the colonel
      became excited, and made more frequent applications to the bottle. Still he lost—and the more
      he lost, the more wine he took; until, getting into a passion, he threw down the cards,
      exclaiming, 'Curse my ill-luck to-night! I have already paid over to you a hundred and
      seventeen guineas at this miserable peddling work; and I will have no more of it. Damn it,
      Anderson, if you've any pluck you'll let me set you fifty guineas at hazard?'—'Done!' cried I;
      and the cards being thrown aside, we took to the dice. My luck still continued: I won three
      hundred pounds—all the ready money the colonel had about him; and he then played on credit,
      scoring his losses on a sheet of paper. His excitement increased to a fearful pitch, and he
      drank furiously. Still we played on, and the grey dawn of morning found us at our shameful
      work. At length Beaumont started up, dashed the dice-box upon the floor, crushed it beneath
      his heel, and uttered a terrible imprecation upon his ill-luck. He drank soda-water to cool
      himself; and we then examined the account that had been kept. The colonel owed me four
      thousand four hundred pounds, in addition to the ready money he had already lost. Pale as
      death, and with quivering lip, he gave me his note of hand for the amount; and having enjoined
      me in a low hoarse voice not to mention the affair to a single soul, rushed out of the room. I
      retired to bed, as happy as if I had performed some great and honourable achievement.  
  "The colonel did not make his appearance all day—nor for several days afterwards; and the
      answer to all inquiries was that he was indisposed. On the evening of the sixth day after the
      night of his losses, I received a message requesting me to visit him at his rooms. Thither I
      immediately repaired, taking his note of hand with me under the pleasing supposition that I
      was about to be paid the amount. When I entered his sitting-apartment, I was shocked to find
      him ghastly pale—the cadaverous expression of his countenance being enhanced by the six days'
      beard which no razor had touched. He was sitting near the fire—for it was still early in
      Spring—wrapped in a dressing-gown. Pointing to a chair, he said in a mournful voice,
      'Anderson, you must think it strange that I have not yet settled the little memorandum which
      you hold; but the fact is I am totally dependant upon my father, and I wrote to him confessing
      my loss, and soliciting the means to defray it. There is his answer:'—and he tossed me a
      letter which, by the date, he had received that morning. I perused it, and found that his
      father gave a stern refusal to the colonel's request. Mr. Beaumont stated that he had already
      paid his son's debts so often, and had so many drains made upon him by his other children,
      that he was resolved not to encourage the colonel's extravagances any farther. The letter was
      so positively worded that an appeal against its decision was evidently hopeless. 'You see in
      what a position I am placed,' continued the colonel, when I had returned the letter to him;
      'and the only alternative remaining for me is to sell my commission. This I will do as
      speedily as possible; and until that object can be accomplished, I must request your
      forbearance.' Not for one moment did I hesitate how to act. 'No,' I exclaimed; 'never shall it
      be said that I was the cause of your ruin;' and I threw the note of hand into the fire.—He
      watched the paper until it was completely burnt, with the surprise of a man who could scarcely
      believe his own eyes; and at length, starting up, he embraced me as fervently as if I had just
      saved his life. He called me his saviour—his benefactor, and swore eternal friendship. We
      parted; and next day he appeared on parade, a little pale, but in better spirits than ever. I
      could not, however, avoid noticing that he encountered me with some degree of coolness and
      reserve, and that his manner at the mess-table in the evening was distant and constrained
      towards me only. But the circumstance made little impression on me at the time.  
  "A few days after this event the colonel obtained three months' leave of absence; and during
      that period the major remained in command. He was a severe, but honourable and upright man;
      and he intimated his desire that the wine-parties should be discontinued. Myself and the other
      officers who were accustomed to play, took the hint, and no longer assembled for gaming
      purposes in our rooms; but we had supper-parties at one of the principal taverns in the town,
      and the cards and dice were in as much request amongst us as ever.  
  his approval of the major's conduct in suppressing the wine-parties. This was,
      however, mere hypocrisy on his part, and because he did not dare encourage what an officer so
      near his own rank had disapproved of. His manner towards myself was more cold and distant than
      it was previously to his departure,—yet not so pointed in its frigidity as to authorise me to
      request an explanation. Besides, he was my commanding officer, and could treat me as he chose,
      short of proffering a direct insult."  
  Time passed very rapidly away, and my father purchased me a lieutenancy in the same
      regiment, a vacancy occurring. I would gladly have exchanged into another corps, the coldness
      of the colonel towards me being a source of much mortification and annoyance—the more
      especially as it was so little deserved on my part. I however rejoiced at my promotion, and
      submitted so resignedly to Beaumont's behaviour that he never had an opportunity of addressing
      me in the language of reprimand.  
  "I was now nineteen, and had been in the army three years. During that period I had gambled
      incessantly, but with such success that I more than doubled my income by means of cards and
      dice. I was completely infatuated with play, and looked upon it alike as a source of profit
      and recreation. About this time I formed the acquaintance of a young lady, whose name was
      Julia Vandeleur. She resided with her mother, who was a widow, in a neat little dwelling about
      two miles from Portsmouth, on the verge of South-sea common. Her deceased husband had belonged
      to a family of French extraction, and after passing the greater portion of his life in a
      government office, had died suddenly, leaving his widow, however, in comfortable though by no
      means affluent circumstances. Julia, at the time when I was first introduced to her at a small
      party given by the principal banker of Portsmouth, was a charming girl of sixteen. Not
      absolutely beautiful, she was endowed with an amiability and cheerfulness of disposition
      which, combined with the most perfect artlessness and with a rare purity of soul, rendered her
      a being whom it was impossible to see without admiring. Well educated, accomplished, and
      intelligent, she was the pride of an excellent mother, whose own good conduct through life was
      recompensed by the irreproachable behaviour and tender affection of her interesting daughter.
      Need I say that I was almost immediately struck by the appearance and manners of the charming
      Julia Vandeleur?  
  "I paid her a great deal of attention that evening, and called next day at her abode. To be
      brief, I soon became a constant visitor; and Mrs. Vandeleur did not discountenance my
      presence. Nor did her daughter manifest any repugnance towards me. The influence of that dear
      creature was then most salutary:—would that it had always continued so! For one year I never
      touched a card nor die, all my leisure time being passed at the cottage. To add to my
      happiness my father came down to Portsmouth to see me: he took apartments for a few weeks at
      the George Hotel; and I introduced him to Mrs. and Miss Vandeleur. Although Julia was no
      heiress, my father was too much attached to me to throw any obstacle in the way of my suit;
      and I was accepted as Miss Vandeleur's intended husband. Oh! what joyous days were those—days
      of the most pure and unadulterated happiness!  
  "It was settled that my father should purchase me a captaincy, and that the marriage should
      then take place. He accordingly returned to town to make the necessary exertions and
      arrangements for my promotion; and it was during his absence that my contemplated union
      reached the ears of Colonel Beaumont. I had kept my attachment and my engagement an entire
      secret from my brother officers, because I did not wish to introduce a set of profligate and
      dissipated men to the innocent girl who loved me, nor to her parent whom I respected. But that
      secret   did   transpire somehow or another; and Beaumont then found an opportunity of
      venting his spite upon me. He called upon Mrs. Vandeleur, sought a private interview with her,
      and declared that his conscience would not permit him to allow her to bestow her daughter,
      without due warning, upon a confirmed gamester. He then took his leave, having produced a most
      painful impression upon the mind of Mrs. Vandeleur. She did not, however, immediately speak to
      her daughter upon the subject; but when I called as usual in the evening, she took an
      opportunity to confer with me alone. She then calmly and sorrowfully stated the particulars of
      the colonel's visit. I was confounded; and my manner confirmed the truth of his accusation.
      Mrs. Vandeleur implored me to urge my suit with her daughter no farther—to break off the
      engagement where it stood—and urged me, as a gentleman, to release Julia from her promise. I
      threw myself at her feet—confessed that I had been addicted to play—but swore in the most
      solemn manner that for a year past I had renounced the abominable vice, into which my
      affection for her daughter would never permit me to relapse. She was moved by my sincerity—and
      at length she yielded to my earnest prayers. Oh! never shall I forget that excellent lady's
      words on this occasion. 'William,' she said, 'I will give you my daughter. But remember that
      the poor widow is thereby bestowing upon you the only treasure which she possesses—her only
      solace—her only consolation; and if you deceive her by rendering that dear child unhappy, you
      will break the heart of her who now addresses you!'—'Oh! my dear madam,' I exclaimed, 'the
      example of your virtues and the consciousness of possessing Julia's love will make me all that
      you can desire. And by yon pale moon I swear that never—never more will I deserve the name of
      a gambler. No: may this right hand wither—may the lightning of heaven strike it—if it ever
      touch cards or dice again!'—Mrs. Vandeleur rebuked me for the words I used; but the sincerity
      of my manner completely reassured her. Julia remained in ignorance of the object of the
      Colonel's visit and of this explanation between her mother and myself.  
  his advances. When I was about to leave the table, for the purpose of repairing
      to the abode of my beloved, the Colonel said, 'Anderson, I wish to speak to you in my room.'—I
      bowed and accompanied him thither.—'Let us forget the past,' he said, extending his hand
      towards me, 'and be friendly as we were wont.'—'I am not aware, sir,' was my reply, 'that I
      ever offended you.'—'No; but you humiliated me,' he answered, with a singular expression of
      countenance; 'and   that  , to a military man and a superior officer, was most galling.
      Circumstances have lately changed with me. A distant relative has died and left me a
      considerable property; and my first duty is to pay you the four thousand pounds I owe
      you.'—'That debt, sir,' said I, 'has been cancelled long ago.'—'You generously destroyed the
      proof,' he hastily rejoined; 'but the obligation never could be annihilated, save in this
      manner:' and he handed me the sum which he had formerly owed.—I of course received the amount,
      and my opinion of him grew far more favourable, in spite of his attempt to ruin me with Mrs.
      Vandeleur.  
  "When this transaction was completed, the Colonel said, 'Anderson, we are now quits, but not
      exactly on equal terms. You have won a large sum from me; and though a settlement has been
      delayed, still that sum is now paid. As a gentleman you will give me my revenge.'—I started
      and turned pale.—'Of course you cannot refuse to allow me the chance of recovering myself,' he
      continued, calmly producing a dice-box.—'I dare not play, sir,' I exclaimed, my breath coming
      thickly.—'Oh!   as a gentleman  ,' he repeated, 'you are bound to do so.'—'I have sworn a
      solemn oath never to touch cards nor dice again.'—'And if you had also sworn never to fight a
      duel, would that plea justify you in receiving an insult unresented, in the eyes of honourable
      men?' he demanded.—'Colonel Beaumont,' I said, 'in the name of heaven do not urge me to break
      that solemn vow!'—'Will you compel me to declare that oaths are sometimes mere matters of
      convenience?' cried the colonel: 'will you force me to express my conviction that Lieutenant
      Anderson will enrich himself by play, and will not afford the loser that opportunity of
      revenge which all honourable men concede?'—'Take back your money, sir,' I cried, dreadfully
      agitated; 'and permit me to retire.'—'Would you insult me by restoring money that I owed?'
      demanded the Colonel.—'Not for worlds would I insult you, sir,' was my answer: 'but do not
      force me to violate my promise to Mrs. Vandeleur.'—'Oh! a promise made to a lady, eh?' he
      exclaimed. 'I thought you more of a man than to refuse honourable satisfaction in consequence
      of a vow pledged under the influence of love. Come, Anderson, act fairly; and do not compel me
      to explain the transaction to your brother-officers.'  
  "Oh! what will your Highness think of me when I declare that I was alarmed by this threat,
      and that I yielded to the colonel's urgent solicitation! He produced wine; and I drank deeply
      to drown my remorse. At first I trembled as I touched the dice-box—for I remembered the solemn
      oath pledged only a few days previously. But in a short time the influence of the liquor and
      the excitement of play stifled all compunction; and I once more devoted myself to the game
      with all the intense interest which is experienced by the confirmed gamester. Beaumont was
      cool and collected: I was nervous and irritable. Fortune seemed to be bent upon giving
         him   the revenge which he had solicited. I lost—we doubled our stakes: I continued to
      lose—and I steeped my vexation in frequent draughts of wine. In three hours I lost back again
      the whole amount he had paid me. The colonel then threw down the box, and said, 'I am
      satisfied.'—'But I am not,' I exclaimed furiously: 'let us go on.'—'As you please,' he
      observed calmly; and, maddened with drink—hurried on, too, by the terrible excitement which
      gamblers alone can know, I played—and played until I owed the colonel two thousand three
      hundred pounds. Then a revulsion of feeling took place; and I cursed my folly. I loathed
      myself: intoxicated as I was, I felt as a perjurer should feel. The colonel claimed my note of
      hand; and I gave it. This done, I rushed wildly from his room, and hastened to my own.  
  "When I awoke in the morning, I could scarcely believe that the scene of the previous night
      had really occurred. It seemed to me as if I were standing on the brink of a dreadful yawning
      gulf, which a mist hid from my sight, but which I nevertheless knew to be   there  . Then
      that mist gradually rolled away; and the blackness of the abyss was revealed to me with all
      its horrors. Terrible were my feelings. But I was compelled to reflect upon what was to be
      done. My mind was soon made up. The debt must be paid; and, that obligation once satisfied, I
      would never touch the dice again! Having written a hurried letter to Julia, stating that
      business of importance suddenly called me to London, and having obtained leave of absence from
      the colonel, I repaired in all possible haste to the metropolis. But my father, to whom it was
      of course my intention to apply for succour, had left town that very morning for Portsmouth;
      and we had therefore crossed each other on the way. An idea struck me:—could I not borrow the
      money I required without being compelled to reveal the truth to my father? The thought pleased
      me—and I even felt rejoiced that we had so missed each other. Early next morning I obtained
      the two thousand three hundred pounds of one Mr. Goldshig, a Jew, who received my note of hand
      for three thousand in return, with the understanding that he would continue to hold it so long
      as I paid a hundred pounds every quarter for the accommodation—such payments, however, not to
      be deducted from the principal, but to be regarded simply in the light of interest.  
  with you now,' answered the Colonel; and he bowed me out with freezing
      politeness.  
  "Strange misgivings now oppressed me; and I began to read something malignant and
      systematically vindictive in the conduct of the Colonel; for it was evident that he must have
      mentioned the fact of possessing my note of hand. Dreadfully agitated, I returned to the
      George. My father had just come in; and his countenance was mournfully severe, when I entered
      his presence. 'William,' said he, 'I am deceived in you; and you have acted in a manner which
      you will have cause to rue as long as you live; that is, if your attachment for Miss Vandeleur
      be truly sincere.'—'My God!' I exclaimed: 'what has occurred? Does Mrs. Vandeleur know of
         this  ?'—'She knows all; and she not only sees in you a confirmed gambler, but a
      wicked perjurer,' answered my father. 'Her door is closed against you for ever.'—'Oh! wretch
      that I am!' I cried, beating my breast in despair. 'But who can have done all this
      mischief?'—'Colonel Beaumont called this morning on Mrs. Vandeleur, and insultingly exhibited
      your note of hand, which I have ere now redeemed.'—'The villain!' I exclaimed, rushing towards
      the door: 'but he shall pay dearly for this!'—'Stop, sir, I command you,' cried my father. 'He
      is your superior officer; he evidently hates you; and, were you to challenge him, he would
      ruin you. No: that is not the course to pursue. I have purchased you a Captain's commission in
      the—the regiment, which is stationed at Chatham; and you have also three months' leave of
      absence. Return with me to London; and endeavour by your future conduct to atone for the
      misdeeds of the past.'  
  "In reply to my hurried and anxious questions, I learnt that any attempt to see Julia would
      be vain, and could have no other result than to irritate Mrs. Vandeleur the more against me.
      My father offered me some consolation by the assurance that if I conducted myself well for a
      year, there would be a hope of reconciliation with the incensed lady; and I trusted to Julia's
      love to ensure her fidelity. Thus, partially—though very partially—relieved from the
      intenseness of that pain which now pierced to my very soul, I hastened to the barracks to
      superintend the packing up of my things, and to take leave of my brother-officers. This being
      done, I was passing out of the barrack-yard, when I encountered the Colonel. The light of the
      lamp fell upon his countenance, which expressed fiend-like satisfaction and triumph. Catching
      me by the arm, as I was about to pass him in silence, he muttered between his teeth,
      'Anderson, I am avenged. You humiliated me once; and I hate you for it! Know me as your
      implacable enemy; and renounce all hope of your Julia—for she shall be mine!'  
  "He then hurried away. I was so stupefied by this sudden revelation of the ferocious and
      most unjust enmity of this bad man, that I remained rooted as it were to the spot. Never was
      there such ingratitude! But his threat relative to Julia,—oh! I could have afforded to laugh
      at his hatred: that menace, however, rang in my ears like a deafening bell. Mournfully I
      turned away, and hastened back to the inn. I passed a sleepless—wretched night; and during the
      journey to town, scarcely spoke a word to my father the whole way.  
  "The money that I had borrowed of the Jew was still in my possession; and I resolved to lose
      no time in returning it. Accordingly, the very next day after my arrival in London, I set out
      on my way to his abode in the City; but meeting with some officers of my acquaintance, I
      agreed to dine with them at an hotel in Bridge Street, Blackfriars. In fact, I was so very
      unhappy that I was glad to meet with such society; and I thought that I could easily postpone
      my visit to the Jew until the morrow. The dinner was first-rate—the wines excellent; and I
      drank copiously to drown my cares. Presently some one proposed cards: I could not offer any
      objection; but I simply stated that I should not play. Cards, however, were brought; and
         écarté   was the game. I sate looking on. In the course of half an hour I
      saw a most favourable opportunity for making a good bet; and, with the most wretched
      sophistry, I reasoned to myself that betting and playing were two very different things. I
      accordingly offered the wager, and won it. Encouraged by this success, I bet again; and again
      I won. In less than another half hour I had pocketed two hundred guineas—for the play was high
      and the wagers in proportion. The ice was, alas! again broken; and it did not require much
      persuasion to induce me to take a hand. I thought of Julia—sighed and hesitated: I looked
      again at the cards—sighed once more—and seized them with that desperate feeling which we
      experience when we know we are doing wrong. To be brief, we kept up the play until three
      o'clock in the morning; and I not only lost every farthing I had about me—amounting, with the
      Jew's money and my own, to nearly three thousand pounds—but six hundred more by note of hand.
      It was understood that we should meet again on the following evening at another hotel, to
      settle accounts; and I returned home in that state of mind which suggests suicide!  
  "Fortunately my father did not know at what hour I entered; and he therefore suspected
      nothing. After breakfast I paid a visit to the Jew—but not to repay him his money. My object
      was to borrow more, which he willingly lent me, as I was enabled to show him the previous
      evening's   Gazette   in which my promotion by purchase was recorded. I borrowed
      the six hundred pounds which I required, and for which I gave a bill to the amount of a
      thousand. At the appointed hour I repaired to the hotel where I was to meet my friends; but
      with the firm resolution of not yielding to any inducement to play. How vain was that
      determination! cards were already on the table when I entered, for I came somewhat late,
      having dined with my father before-hand. I strove hard to keep my vow—I wrestled powerfully
      against my inclinations; but a glass of champagne unsettled me—and I fell once more! Another
      late sitting at the card-table—another severe loss—another visit to the Jew next day!  
  mental anguish which I endured, was that my father corresponded with Mrs.
      Vandeleur from time to time, and gave her the most favourable accounts of me. Of this he
      informed me in his letters, and when I occasionally repaired to town to pass a few days with
      him.  
  "At length—just when the Jew was becoming most pressing for money, and my difficulties were
      closing in around me with fearful rapidity—I one day received a summons to return home. On my
      arrival I found my father in high glee; and, after tantalising me a little, he produced a
      letter which he had received from Mrs. Vandeleur. That excellent lady, moved by my father's
      representations—touched by the drooping condition of her daughter—and also, perhaps, anxious
      to relieve Julia from the persecutions '  of a certain Colonel  ,' as she said in her
      letter, '  who annoyed her with his addresses  ,' had consented to our union. I was
      overwhelmed with joy: all my cares were forgotten—my difficulties seemed to disappear. My
      father had not been inactive since the receipt of that letter. He had obtained six months'
      leave of absence for me, and had hired and furnished a house in Russell Square for the
      reception of myself and Julia. Even the time and place for the celebration of the marriage had
      been arranged between him and Mrs. Vandeleur. The ceremony was to take place at Portsmouth on
      the ensuing Monday; and I was to accompany my father thither two days previously.  
  "Much as I longed to embrace my dear Julia, I was not sorry to be allowed a few hours' delay
      in London; for I felt how necessary it was to pacify the Jew. I accordingly called upon him,
      acquainted him with my approaching marriage, and stated that as it was my father's intention
      to transfer to my name a considerable sum in the public funds, the monies owing should be paid
      with all arrears the moment that transfer took place. Goldshig seemed quite satisfied; and I
      took leave of him with a light heart. But as I was issuing from his dwelling, I ran against
      Colonel Beaumont—my mortal enemy—who was about to enter the house. He started and was
      evidently much surprised: I was both surprised and annoyed. Convinced, however, that this
      meeting was a mere coincidence, and that his presence there had no connexion with my affairs,
      I was about to pass on with silent contempt, when he laid his hand on my arm—as he had done at
      the barrack-gate at Portsmouth thirteen months previously—and said, 'You think you will yet
      possess Julia: you are mistaken! She has repulsed me—but   you   know that I can avenge
      an insult!'—I thrust him rudely away from me, smiled contemptuously, and passed on.  
  "This circumstance was speedily forgotten by me amidst the bustle and excitement of the
      preparations for my marriage; and never did I feel more truly happy than when journeying by my
      father's side, in our travelling-carriage, towards the place where my beloved Julia dwelt. We
      alighted at the George Hotel at about five o'clock on the Saturday evening; and, as my father
      felt fatigued,—for he was now nearly sixty-five years of age,—I repaired alone to the cottage
      near South-sea Common. I shall pass over the joys—the rapturous joys of that meeting. Julia
      evidently loved me more than ever; and Mrs. Vandeleur received me in a manner which promised
      an oblivion of the past. And, oh! when I contemplated that charming girl who was so shortly to
      be my wife,—and when I listened to the kind language of her excellent mother,—I renewed within
      myself, but in terms of far more awful solemnity, the oath which I had once before taken in
      that very room!  
  "I learnt that Colonel Beaumont had, as Mrs. Vandeleur stated in her letter, persecuted my
      Julia with his addresses, and implored her to marry him. But her heart remained faithful to
      me, although circumstances had compelled her mother to explain to her the cause of our
      separation; and the Colonel was summarily refused.  
  "The happy morning dawned; and, in spite of the Colonel's threats, Julia and I were united
      at St. Peter's Church, Portsmouth. The ceremony was as private as possible; and as we had a
      long journey before us, the breakfast usually given on such occasions was dispensed with.
      Accordingly, on leaving the church, the bridal party repaired to the George, where the
      travelling-carriage and four were ready for starting. My father intended to remain in
      Portsmouth for a few days, for the benefit of the sea-air; and Mrs. Vandeleur was to visit us
      in London at the expiration of about a month, and then take up her abode with us in Russell
      Square altogether.  
  "While Julia was taking leave of her affectionate parent in a private room, a waiter entered
      the apartment where I and my father were conversing together, and informed me that a person
      desired to speak to me below. I followed the waiter to a parlour on the ground-floor; and
      there—to my ineffable horror—I found Mr. Goldshig. Two suspicious-looking men were standing
      apart in a corner. I instantly comprehended the truth. I was arrested for the debt owing to
      the Jew. In vain did I attempt to expostulate with him on the harshness of this proceeding.
      'You know very well,' said he, 'that you and your wife are going off to the continent, and I
      might have whistled for my money if I had not done this. In fact, the person who gave me the
      information, strongly urged me to arrest you on Saturday evening immediately after your
      arrival; but there was some delay in getting the writ. However, you are safe in the officer's
      hands now; and you must go to quod if your father don't give his security.'—I was overwhelmed
      by this sudden disaster; and I vowed vengeance upon Beaumont, whose malignity I too well
      recognised as the origin of my present predicament. There was no alternative but to send for
      my father. His sorrow was immense; and he assured me that in settling the debt, he was moved
      only by consideration for the feelings of my bride and her mother, whom he would not plunge
      into affliction by allowing his son's conduct to reach their ears. He accordingly gave his
      security to the Jew; and I was once more free.  
  birth of my daughter. Poor old man! he did not live long after that! A cold which
      he caught led to a general breaking up of his constitution; and he died after a short illness.
      But on his death-bed he implored me not to relapse into those evil courses which had
      originally caused so much misery; and I vowed in the most solemn manner—by all I deemed
      sacred, and as I valued the dying blessing of my kind parent—to follow his counsel.  
  "I now found myself the possessor of a fortune amounting in ready money to thirty-six
      thousand pounds. Mrs. Vandeleur resided with us; and, when the mournful impression created by
      my father's death became softened down, there was not a happier family in the universe than
      ours. My Julia was all that I had anticipated—amiable, affectionate, and as faultless as a
      wife as she was excellent as a daughter.  
  "Four years rolled away from the date of my father's death; and not once during that period
      did I touch a card nor even behold a dice-box. I had purchased a Majority, and remained
      unattached. I was also now the father of three children—one girl and two boys; and every thing
      seemed to contribute to my felicity. We had a select circle of friends—real friends, and not
      useless acquaintances; and our domestic economy was such as to enable us to live considerably
      within our income.  
  "Such was my position when a friend one day proposed that I should become a member of a Club
      to which he already belonged. Mrs. Vandeleur and Julia, seeing that I was very much at home,
      thought that this step would ensure me a little recreation and change of scene, and therefore
      advocated the propriety of accepting the offer. I was balloted for and elected. My friend was
      a well-meaning, sincere, and excellent man, who had not the slightest idea of placing me in
      the way of temptation when he made the proposal just mentioned. Neither had my mother-in-law
      or wife the least suspicion that play ever took place at a Club. I was equally ignorant of the
      fact until I became initiated; and then I perceived the precipice on which I had suddenly
      placed myself. But I dared not make any observation to my friend on the subject; for he was
      totally unaware that gaming had ever been amongst the number of my failings. To be brief, I
      had not been a member of the Club six weeks, when I was one evening induced to sit down to a
      rubber of whist with three staid old gentlemen, who only played for amusement. 'There cannot
      be any harm in doing this,' said I to myself; 'because no money is staked. Moreover, even if
      there were, I have now acquired such control over myself that I could not possibly forget my
      solemn vows in this respect.'—Thus endeavouring to soothe my conscience—for I knew that I
         was   doing wrong, but would not admit it even to myself—I sate down. We played for an
      hour, at the expiration of which one gentleman left and another took his place. The new-comer
      proposed shilling points, '  just to render the game interesting  .' The other two
      gentlemen agreed: I could not possibly—at least, I thought I could not—seem so churlish or so
      mean as to refuse to play on those terms.  
  "Trifling as the amount either to be won or lost could be, the mere fact of playing for
         money   aroused within me that unnatural excitement which, as I have before informed
      your Highness, is alone experienced by those who have a confirmed predilection for gambling.
      And I now discovered—when it was too late—that this predilection on my part had only been
      lying dormant, and was not crushed. No: for I played that evening with a zest—with an
      interest—with a real love, which superseded all other considerations; and I did not return
      home until a late hour. Next day I was ashamed of myself—I was vexed at my weakness—I trembled
      lest I should again fall. For a fortnight I did not go near the Club: but at the expiration of
      that period, a dinner took place to celebrate the fourth anniversary of the foundation of the
      establishment, and I found it difficult to excuse myself. I accordingly went; and in the
      evening I sate down to a rubber of whist. Afterwards I lounged about a table where
         écarté   was being played:—I staked some money—won—and fell once more!  
  "I shall not linger upon details. The current of my fatal predilection—dammed up for five
      years and a half—had now broken through its flood-gates, and rushed on with a fury rendered
      more violent by the lengthened accumulation of volume and power.   Écarté   was
      my favourite game; and I found several members of the Club willing to play with me on all
      occasions. For some time I neither gained nor lost to any important amount; but one evening
      the play ran high, and—hurried along by that singular infatuation which prompts the gamester
      to exert himself to recover his losses—I staked large sums. Fortune was opposed to me; and I
      retired a loser of nearly two thousand pounds. The ice being once more completely broken, I
      plunged headlong into the fatal vortex; and my peace of mind was gone!  
  lady burst into tears. I endeavoured to console her: I swore that her suspicions
      were totally unfounded:—but, alas! no change in my behaviour tended to corroborate my
      asseverations.  
  "I persisted in my fearful course; and, as if I were not already surrounded by elements of
      ruin sufficiently powerful, I became a member of Crockford's. In saying that, I mention
      sufficient to convince your Highness that I rushed wilfully and blindly on to the goal of
      utter destruction. My fortune disappeared rapidly; and when it was gone, I sold my commission,
      and then applied to Goldshig, who lent me money upon the most exorbitant terms. But let me
      pass over the incidents of three years. At the expiration of that time how was I situated?
      What was the condition of my family? Painful as these reminiscences are, I will not conceal
      the facts from your Highness. In a chamber at the house in Russell Square Mrs. Vandeleur lay
      upon her death-bed. Julia—pale, with haggard eyes, sunken cheeks, and appearance so care-worn
      that it would have moved even the heart of an overseer or master of a workhouse,—Julia hung,
      weeping bitterly, over the pillow. In the nursery, a servant was endeavouring to pacify the
      children, who were crying because they knew that their '  dear grandmamma  ,' was very,
      very ill. In the kitchen an ill-looking fellow was dozing by the fire:—he was a bailiff's man
      in possession—for there was an execution levied on my property. And I—where was I? Gone to
      solicit Goldshig the Jew for a few days' grace, the sale having been advertised to take place
      next morning! Thus was this once happy home now invaded by misery and distress:—thus was an
      amiable wife plunged into sorrows so keen, woes so bitter, afflictions so appalling, that it
      was no wonder if her charming form had wasted away, and the frightful aspect of the demon of
      despair had chased the roses from her cheeks;—and thus, too, was an excellent lady dying
      prematurely with that worst of the Destroyer's plagues—a broken heart!  
  "It was about five o'clock in the evening when I returned, after vainly waiting six hours to
      see Goldshig, who was not at home. Wearied and anxious, I left a note for him at his office,
      and retraced my miserable way to Russell Square. On my entrance Julia hastened to meet me, for
      she had heard my knock. 'What tidings?' she inquired in a rapid tone.—I informed her of what I
      had done. Her countenance became even more wretched than it was before.—'Oh! that they will
      not molest my dear, dear mother on her death-bed!' she shrieked, clasping her hands franticly
      together. I turned aside, and shed bitter—burning tears. The children now came rushing into
      the room. Alas! poor innocents, they knew not of the ruin that was hanging over their heads;
      and when they took my hands—kissed them—and said, 'Oh! we are so glad that dear papa has come
      home!'—I thought my heart would break. My God! my God! had all the misery which weighed upon
      our house been caused by me?  
  "I approached my wife—I took her in my arms—I murmured, as I kissed her pale cheek, 'Can
      you—can you forgive me?'—'Oh! have I ever reproached you, William?' she asked, endeavouring to
      smile in gratitude for my caresses.—'No: never, never, poor dear afflicted creature!' I
      exclaimed wildly; 'and it is your resignation, your goodness which makes my conduct so black,
      so very black!'—She wound her arms about my neck, and said in her soft gentle tone, 'Will you
      not come and see my mother?'—I started back in horror. She comprehended me, and observed, 'Do
      not fear reproaches: but come with me, I conjure you!'—I took the hand which she extended to
      me: holy God! how thin that hand had become—how skeleton-like had grown the taper fingers.
      Though it was my own wife's hand I shuddered at the touch. She seemed to read my thoughts; for
      she pressed   my   hand affectionately, and then wiped away her tears. A deep sob escaped
      her bosom—and she hurried me towards the sick-room. The children followed us without
      opposition on their mother's part; and in a few moments the mournful group approached the bed
      of death. I had not seen Mrs. Vandeleur for nearly a week; and I was shocked—oh! painfully
      shocked at the alteration which had taken place in her. From a fine, stout, handsome, healthy
      woman, she had wasted away to a mere shadow:—Julia was a shadow herself—but her mother seemed
      to be the shade of a shadow! Merciful heavens! and all this had been wrought by me!  
  "Kneeling by the side of the bed, I took the transparent hand that the dying woman tendered
      me, and pressed it to my lips. My brain seemed to whirl; and all became confusion and
      bewilderment around me. I remember a low and plaintive voice assuring me that heaven would yet
      forgive me the broken heart of the mother, if I would only be kind to the daughter:—I have a
      faint recollection of that dying voice imploring me to quit my evil ways, for the sake of her
      whom I had sworn to love and protect—for the sake of the children who were sobbing bitterly
      close by;—and methinks that I reiterated those solemn vows of repentance which I had before so
      often uttered—but to break! Then I was suddenly aroused from a sort of stupor into which I
      fell—kneeling as I still was,—aroused, too, by a piercing scream. Starting up, I caught the
      fainting form of Julia in my arms;—and a glance towards the bed showed me that her mother was
      no more! Her prophetic words were fulfilled: the widow, who gave me her only treasure, had
      died of a broken heart!  
  "Heaven only knows how I passed the wretched night that followed. I remember that the dawn
      of a cold March morning, accompanied by a cheerless drizzling rain, found me pacing the
      parlour in a despairing manner. I do believe I was half mad. And such horrible ideas haunted
      me! I thought of killing my wife and children, and then blowing out my own brains. Then I
      resolved to fly—and never see them more. In another minute I wept bitterly when I asked
      myself, 'But what would become of them?' I writhed in mental agony, as I found no response to
      this question; and when I pictured to myself all the amiable qualities of my wife—her
      gentleness—her goodness—her endearments—her unimpaired love,—and then thought of the little
      innocents with their winning ways, their little tricks, their pretty sayings, and their cherub
      countenances,——Oh! God, no words can explain how acute my sufferings were!  
  confirmed. The broker made his appearance, accompanied by his men; and the house
      was at the same time invaded by a posse of Jews—the usual buyers at sales effected under
      instructions from the Sheriff. Hastening the burst of anguish that rose to my lips, I drew the
      broker aside, acquainted him with the fact of my mother-in-law's death on the previous
      evening, and implored his forbearance for a week. He quietly took a pinch of snuff, and then
      observed that he was not the master—that he had no power to interfere—that the advertisements,
      announcing the sale, had appeared in the papers—and that the business must proceed without
      delay! Remonstrances—threats—prayers were all useless: the sale commenced;—and I was forced to
      repair to my wife's room to break the fatal news to her. She uttered no reproach—she even
      conquered her anguish as much as she could;—and the children were then ordered to be dressed
      directly. Presently Julia inquired in a meek and timid tone, if I had money enough to buy in
      the furniture of   the   room—she meant where her mother lay. I answered in the
      affirmative; but it was only to console her—for I had not a guinea—nor a friend! In a state of
      distraction I returned to the parlour where the sale was in progress. Merciful heavens!
      foremost of the buyers was Beaumont—my mortal enemy—bidding for the most costly articles that
      were put up. In a moment I felt as if I could fall on him, and tear him to pieces. He saw me;
      and, although taking no apparent notice of me, I beheld a sardonic smile of triumph upon his
      lips. I could bear no more: reckless of all—of every thing—I rushed from the house.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "For hours and hours did I wander about like a maniac—walking hastily along, without any
      defined object—and not even observing the crowds that passed me. Every thing was confused:
      bells seemed to be ringing in my very brain. It was dark when I thought of returning home; and
      then I felt shocked at the idea of having deserted my poor wife and helpless children at such
      a time. My ideas were now more collected; and I hastened to Russel Square. All was quiet in
      the house: but   they  back!' she exclaimed, sinking half-fainting into my arms: 'you know not what
      horrible fears have oppressed me!'—I embraced her tenderly: never—never did she seem more dear
      to me! The children also flocked around me; and the tender word '  Papa!  ' wrung from me
      a flood of tears, which relieved me. I then made certain inquiries, and learnt the most
      heart-rending particulars. Every thing was sold and removed—even to the children's little
      beds;—but the worst of all was that the corse of Julia's mother lay upon the floor of the
      chamber where she had breathed her last!  
  "But let me hurry over these dreadful details. A few trinkets belonging to Julia yet
      remained; and the sale of those ornaments—presents made to her by me in happier days—enabled
      us to bury her mother decently, and to remove to a small ready-furnished lodging. Julia
      supported these sad afflictions and reverses with angelic resignation; and never did a single
      reproach emanate from her lips. Neither did she neglect the children: on the contrary, her
      attention to them redoubled, now that she had no longer a servant to aid her. But, alas! her
      strength was failing visibly: her constitution was undermined by misery and woe! And still it
      seemed, much though we had already suffered, as if our sorrows had only just begun. For, a few
      weeks after the sale of my property, and just as I had obtained a clerk's situation in a
      mercantile house, I was arrested for the balance of the debt due to Goldshig, the auction not
      having produced enough to liquidate his claims. This blow was terrible indeed, as it paralysed
      all my energies. I was taken to Whitecross Street prison, the only prospect of obtaining my
      release being the Insolvents' Court. I was accordingly compelled to apply to a philanthropic
      association to advance me six pounds for that purpose. The request was complied with; my wife
      went herself to receive the money; and she brought it to me in the prison. I compelled her to
      retain a sovereign for the support of herself and children; and I managed to borrow three
      pounds more from the only one of all my late friends who would even read a letter that came
      from me—so utterly was I despised by them all!  
  "And now—will it be believed that, such was my infatuation in respect to play, I actually
      gambled with my fellow-prisoners—staking the money that had been obtained with so much
      difficulty to pay a lawyer to conduct my business in the Insolvents' Court! Yes—while my poor
      wife was sitting up nearly all night to earn a trifle with her needle or in painting
      maps,—while my children were dependent for their daily bread upon the exertions of their poor
      dying mother,—I—wretch that I was—lost the very means that were to restore me to them! When
      the money had all disappeared, I became like a madman, and attempted to lay violent hands upon
      myself. I was taken to the infirmary of the prison, where I lay delirious with fever for six
      weeks. At the expiration of that time I recovered; and the humanity of the governor of the
      gaol secured the services of a lawyer to file my petition and schedule in the Insolvents'
      Court. The day of hearing came; and I was discharged. But, alas! I returned to the humble
      lodging occupied by my family without a hope—without resources. Nevertheless, the angel Julia
      received me with smiles; and the children also smiled with their sickly, wan, and famished
      countenances. Then, in the course of a conversation which Julia endeavoured to render as
      little mournful as possible, I learnt that Colonel Beaumont had been persecuting her with his
      dishonourable offers,—that he had dogged her in her way to the prison when she went thither to
      see me,—that he had even intruded himself upon her in her poor dwelling of one back room!
      Indeed, it was only in consequence of this visit that my wife mentioned the circumstance to me
      at all; but so pure was her soul, that she could not keep secret from me an occurrence on
      which, did I hear it from stranger lips, a disagreeable construction might be placed.
      Ill—weak—dying as she was, she was still sweetly interesting;—and I could well understand how
      an unprincipled libertine might seek to possess her.  
  "Without allowing Julia to comprehend the full extent of the impression made upon me by this
      information, I vowed within myself a desperate vengeance against that man who seemed to take a
      delight in persecuting me and mine. But for the present the condition of my family occupied
      nearly all my thoughts. Poor Julia was killing herself with hard—hard toil at the needle; and
      the children were only the ghosts of what they were in the days of our prosperity. I was,
      however, fortunate enough to obtain another situation, with a salary of twenty-eight shillings
      a week; and for some months we lived in comparative tranquillity—if not in happiness. But
      Julia always had smiles for me,—smiles, too, when the worm of an insidious disease was gnawing
      at her heart's core. And for my part, my lord, whenever I hear the discontented husband or the
      insolent libertine depreciating the character of Woman, the memory of my own devoted wife
      instantly renders me Woman's champion;—and lost—low—wretched as I have been, I have never
      failed—even in the vilest pot-house in which my miseries have compelled me to seek shelter—to
      vindicate the sex against the aspersions of the malevolent!  
  "Six months after my release from prison the small-pox invaded the house in which we lodged;
      and so virulent was the malady, that within three weeks it carried off two of my children—the
      girl, who was the eldest, and the younger boy. I need not attempt to describe my own grief nor
      the anguish of my wife. The blow was too much for   her  lounging about the play-rooms of an evening, and acting as a decoy to visitors.
      My situation was so desperate that I consented; and ten guineas were given me on the spot to
      fit myself out in a becoming manner. I returned home; and informed Julia that I had obtained
      the place of a night-clerk in a coach-office. She believed me: a smile played on her sickly
      countenance;—and she was soon afterwards able to leave her bed.  
  "I entered on my new employment; and all that fatal thirst for gaming which had plunged me
      into such depths of misery, was immediately revived. The proprietor of the hell would not of
      course permit his 'decoys' to play legitimately on their own account; but we were allowed to
      make bets with strangers in the rooms. This I did; and as the passion gained upon me, I
      visited other gambling-houses when my services were not required at the one where I was
      engaged. Thus I again plunged into that dreadful course; and my poor wife soon suspected the
      fatal truth. Our little girl died—thank God!—at this period. Start not when I express my
      gratitude to heaven that it was so; for what could have become of her during the period of
      utter destitution which soon after supervened? Yes, my lord: scarcely a year had passed, when
      I was hurled into the very depths of want and misery. I was accused of cheating my employer at
      the gaming-house: the imputation was as false as ever villanous lie could be;—and from that
      moment forth the door of every hell was closed against me. I was also unable to obtain an
      honest situation; and after Julia and myself had parted with all our wearing apparel, save the
      few things upon our backs, we were one night thrust forth into the streets—houseless
      beggars!  
  "It was in the middle of winter: the snow lay upon the ground; and the cold was intense. My
      poor wife—in the last stage of consumption, and with only a thin gown and a miserable rag of a
      shawl to cover her—clung to my arm, and even then attempted to console me. Oh! God—what an
      angel was that woman! We roved through the streets—for we dared not sit down on a door-step,
      through fear of being frozen to death! What my feelings were, it is impossible to explain.
      Morning—the cold wintry morning—found us dragging our weary forms along the Dover Road. We had
      no object in proceeding that way; but with tacit consent we seemed bent upon leaving a city
      where we had endured so much. At length Julia murmured in a faint tone, 'William, dearest, I
      cannot move a step farther!' And she sank, half fainting, upon a bank covered with snow.  
  "I was nearly distracted; but still she smiled—smiled, and pressed my hand tenderly, even
      while the ice-cold finger of Death touched her heart. I raised her in my arms:—my God! she was
      as light as a child—so emaciated in person and so thinly clad was she! I bore her to a
      neighbouring cottage, which was fortunately tenanted by kind and hospitable people, who
      immediately received the dying woman into their abode. The good mistress of the house gave up
      her bed to Julia, while her husband hastened to Blackheath for a doctor. And I, kneeling by
      the side of my poor wife, implored her forgiveness for all the miseries she had endured
      through me. 'Do not speak in that manner, my dearest William,' she said, in a faint tone, as
      she drew me towards her; 'for I have always loved you, and I am sure you have loved me in
      return. Alas! my adored husband, what is to become of you? I am going to a better world, where
      I shall meet our departed children: but, ah! to what sorrows, do I leave you? Oh! this is the
      pang which I feel upon my death-bed; and it is more than I can bear. For I love you, William,
      as never woman yet loved; and when I am no more, do not remember any little sufferings which
      you may imagine that you have caused me; for if there be any thing to forgive, God knows how
      sincerely I do forgive you! Think of me sometimes, William—and remember that as I have ever
      loved you, so would I continue to love you were I spared. But——'  
  "Her voice had gradually been growing fainter, and her articulation more difficult, as she
      uttered those loving words which Death rudely cut short. The medical man came: it was too
      late—all was over! Then did I throw myself upon that senseless form, and accuse myself of
      having broken the heart of the best of women. Oh! I thought, if I could only recall the past:
      if the last few years of my life could be spent over again—if my beloved wife, my little ones,
      and my fortune were still left to me—how different would my conduct be! But repentance was too
      late: the work was done—and the consummation of the task of ruin, sorrow, and death was
      accomplished! Wretch—wretch that I was!  
  "The poor people at whose cottage my wife thus breathed her last, were very kind to me. They
      endeavoured to solace my affliction, and insisted that I should remain with them at least
      until after the funeral. And if my poor Julia's remains received decent interment,—if she were
      spared the last ignominy of a parish funeral, which would have crowned all the sad memories
      that remained to me in respect to her,—it was through the benevolence of those poor people and
      the surgeon who had been called in.  
  "When I had followed the corpse of my poor wife to the grave, I returned to London; and,
      assuming another name, procured a humble employment in the City. Would you believe, my lord,
      that one who had held the rank of a Field Officer became the follower of a bailiff—a
      catchpole—a sort of vampire feeding itself upon the vitals of the poor and unfortunate? Yet
      such was my case: and even in that detestable capacity I experienced one day of unfeigned
      pleasure—one day of ineffable satisfaction; and that was upon being employed to arrest and
      convey to Whitecross Street prison my mortal enemy—Colonel Beaumont. Yes: he also was ruined
      by play, and overwhelmed with difficulties. And at whose suit was he captured? At that of
      Goldshig, the Jew! The Colonel was playing at hide-and-seek; but I tracked him out. Night and
      day did I pursue my inquiries until I learnt that he occupied a miserable lodging in the Old
      Bailey: and there was he taken. He languished for six months in prison—deserted by his
      friends—and compelled to receive the City allowance. Every Sunday during that period did I
      visit the gaol to gloat upon his miseries. At length he died in the infirmary, and was buried
      as a pauper!  
  maddening afflictions, that it is most marvellous how I ever could have
      surmounted them. Indeed, I am astonished that suicide has not long ago terminated my wretched
      career. Your Highness saw how I was spurned from the door of that temple of infamy, which had
      absorbed a considerable part of my once ample means;—but that was not the first—no, nor the
      fiftieth time that, when driven to desperation, I have vainly implored succour of those who
      had formerly profited by my follies—my vices. In conclusion, permit me to assure your Highness
      that if the most heart-felt gratitude on the part of a wretch like me, be in any way a
      recompense for that bounty which has relieved me from the most woeful state of destitution and
      want,—then that reward is yours—for I   am   grateful—oh! God only knows how deeply
      grateful!"  
  "Say no more upon that subject," exclaimed Richard, who was profoundly affected by the
      history which he had just heard. "From this day forth you shall never experience want
      again—provided you adhere to your resolves to abandon those temples of ruin in which fortune,
      reputation, and happiness—yes, and the happiness of others—are all engulphed. But for the
      present we have both a duty to perform. Last night, at the door of Crockford's Club, I
      observed a young man in the society of two villains, whom I have, alas! ample cause to
      remember. This young man of whom I speak, drew forth his purse to assist you at the moment
      when I interfered."  
  "Yes—I saw him, and I know who he is, my lord," replied the Major. "His name is Egerton—he
      lives in Stratton Street—and his fortune is rapidly passing into the pockets of swindlers and
      black-legs. It was my intention to call upon him and warn him of the frightful precipice upon
      which he stands; but, alas! too well do I know that such is the infatuation which possesses
      the gamester——"  
  "Enough!" interrupted Richard. "That idea must not deter   me   from performing what I
      conceive to be a duty. And you must aid me in the task."  
  "If your Highness will show me how I can be instrumental in rescuing that young man from the
      jaws of destruction," exclaimed Major Anderson, "gladly—most gladly will I lend my humble
      aid."  
  "You speak as one who is anxious to atone for the misdeeds of the past," said the Prince;
      "and so long as such be your feelings, you will find a sincere friend in me. In respect to
      this foolish young man, who is rushing headlong to ruin, caution must be used; or else those
      arch-profligates, Chichester and Harborough, will frustrate my designs. It is for you to seek
      an interview with Mr. Egerton, and inform him that the Prince of Montoni is desirous to see
      him upon business of a most serious and of altogether a private nature."  
  "The wishes of your Highness shall be attended to," replied Major Anderson. "It is useless
      to attempt to find Egerton   alone   at this time of the day; but to-morrow morning I
      will call on him at an early hour."  
  The Prince was satisfied with this arrangement, and took his departure from the lodging of
      the ruined gamester.  
  Reader! there is no vice which is so fertile in the various elements of misery as
      Gambling!  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLV.   THE EXCURSION.  
  While Major Anderson was engaged in relating his terribly impressive history to the Prince
      of Montoni, Lord Dunstable and Egerton were in earnest conversation together at the lodgings
      of the latter gentleman in Stratton Street.  
  The fact was, that Albert Egerton was placed in a most cruel dilemma, as the following note,
      which he had received in the morning, will show:——  
  
  Pavement, March 28th, 1843.  
  "A month has passed, dear Albert, since I saw you; and you promised to come and see us as
       soon as you had finished your little business about buying the estate. But you have not come;
       and me and the girls are quite non-plushed about it. So I tell you what we've made up our
       minds to do. Next Monday is a holiday; and we intend to hire a shay and go and see your new
       estate. But as we don't know where it is, we shall of course want you to go with us; and so
       you may expect us next Monday, as I say, at eleven o'clock precise. Now mind and don't
       disappoint us; because we've all made up our minds to go, and we won't take any refusal. If
       you can't go, why then we'll go by ourselves; so in that case send us the proper address, and
       a note to the servants. You see that me and the girls are quite determined; so no excuse.  
  "Your loving aunt,  
  "BETSY BUSTARD."  
  
  "What the deuce is to be done?" asked Egerton for the tenth time since the arrival of his
      friend.  
  "Egad! I really am at a loss to advise, my dear boy," replied Dunstable. "The affair is so
      confoundedly ticklish. Can't you write and put them off?"  
  "Impossible!" exclaimed Egerton: "you see how determined they are. Even if I were to
      apologise for not accompanying them, how could I refuse to give them the address of a
      country-seat which they so firmly believe me to possess?"  
  "Then write and say that, finding the house did not suit you after all, you have sold it
      again," suggested Dunstable.  
  "My aunt would see through the thing in a moment," returned Egerton. "Besides, she is
      intimate with Storks, my stock-broker, and would learn, from him that I had not bought in any
      money lately; but, on the contrary, had been selling out. I really must do something—even if I
      hire a country house for the purpose."  
  "Ah! that might be done!" cried Dunstable. "Or, stay!" he continued, a sudden idea striking
      him: "I have it—I have it, my dear boy!"  
  And his lordship seemed as overjoyed as if he himself were the individual who was
      unexpectedly released from a serious difficulty.  
  "Do not keep me in suspense," said Egerton, imploringly: "what is it that you have thought
      of?"  
  "I'll tell you in as few words as possible my boy," returned the nobleman. "It was about two
      years ago that I passed a short time at a place not far from London, called Ravensworth Hall.
      It is a splendid mansion, and has been shut up almost ever since that period. Lady Ravensworth
      is living somewhere on the continent, in great seclusion; and I happen to know that there is
      only an old gardener, with his wife, residing at the Hall."  
  now telling me bears reference to my difficulty," observed Egerton,
      impatiently.  
  "Why—don't you see!" ejaculated Lord Dunstable, slapping his friend upon the shoulder. "The
      gardener and his wife will not decline a five-pound note; and I dare say they are not so
      mighty punctilious as to refuse to allow you to call yourself the master of Ravensworth Hall
      for one day. What do you think of that idea?"  
  "I think it is most admirable," returned Egerton, his countenance brightening up—"if it can
      only be carried into execution."  
  "Will you leave it all to me?" asked Dunstable.  
  "I cannot possibly do better," replied Egerton. "But remember—there is no time to lose. This
      cursed letter must be answered to-day, or to-morrow morning at latest."  
  "I will ride out to Ravensworth as quickly as a thorough-bred can take me thither," said
      Dunstable, rising to depart. "At seven o'clock this evening I'll meet you to dine at Long's;
      and by that time all shall be satisfactory arranged, I can promise you."  
  Egerton wrung his friend's hand; and the nobleman had already reached the door of the room,
      when he turned back as if a sudden recollection had struck him, and said, "By the way, my dear
      boy, have you any cash in the house? I must make a certain payment in the neighbourhood before
      I go; and my agent in the country has been infernally slow lately in sending up the rents of
      my estate."  
  Lord Dunstable's estate was one of those pleasing fictions which exhibit the imaginative
      faculties of so many members of the aristocracy and gentry residing at the West End of
      London.  
  "Oh! certainly," was Egerton's prompt answer to the question put to him. "I have some four
      or five hundred pounds in my pocket-book. How much do you require?"  
  "Four hundred pounds will just make up the amount I have to pay," said Dunstable; and having
      received that sum in Bank-notes, he took his departure, humming an opera air.  
  It is not necessary to detail the particulars of the young nobleman's visit to Ravensworth
      Hall: suffice it to say that he was completely successful in his proposed arrangements with
      the gardener, and that he communicated this result to his friend Egerton at Long's Hotel in
      the evening. Chichester, Cholmondeley, and Harborough were let into the secret; and they
      insisted upon joining the party.  
  Accordingly, on the following day Egerton sent a favourable reply to his aunt's letter; but
      his conscience reproached him—deeply reproached him, for the cheat which he was about to
      practise upon his confiding and affectionate relative.  
  For, in spite of the dissipated courses which he was pursuing,—in spite of the gratification
      which his pride received from the companionship of his aristocratic acquaintances,—in spite of
      the lavish extravagance that marked his expenditure, this young man's good feelings were not
      altogether perverted; and it required but the timely interposition of some friendly hand to
      reclaim him from the ways that were hurrying him on to ruin!  
  The Monday fixed upon for the excursion arrived; and at eleven o'clock in the forenoon a
      huge yellow barouche, commonly called "a glass-coach," rattled up to the door of Mr. Egerton's
      lodgings in Stratton Street. The driver of this vehicle had put on his best clothes, which
      were, however, of a seedy nature, and gave him the air of an insolvent coachman; and the pair
      of horses which it was his duty to drive seemed as if they had been purchased at least six
      months previously by a knacker who had, nevertheless, mercifully granted them a respite during
      pleasure.  
  Egerton's countenance became as red as scarlet when this crazy equipage stopped at his door:
      but his four friends, who were all posted at the windows of his drawing-room, affected to
      consider the whole affair as "a very decent turn-out;" and thus the young man's mind was
      somewhat calmed.  
  By the side of the seedy coachman upon the box sate a tall, thin, red-haired young man,
      dressed in deep black, and with his shirt-collar turned down, over a neckerchief loosely tied,
      after the fashion of Lord Byron. The moment the glass-coach stopped in Stratton Street, down
      leapt the aforesaid seedy coachman on one side, and the thin young man on the other; and while
      the seedy coachman played a nondescript kind of tune upon the knocker of the house, the young
      gentleman proceeded to hand out first Mrs. Bustard, and then her five daughters one after the
      other.  
  This being done, and Egerton's tiger having thrown open the front door, the thin young man
      offered one arm to Mrs. Bustard and the other to Miss Clarissa Jemima Bustard, and escorted
      them into the house, the four remaining young ladies following in a very interesting
      procession indeed.  
  Egerton hastened to welcome his relatives; but from the first moment that he had set his
      eyes upon the red-haired young man, he had entertained the most awful misgivings;—and those
      fears were fully confirmed when Mrs. Bustard introduced that same young man by the name of
      "Mr. Tedworth Jones, the intended husband of Clarissa Jemima."  
  The son and heir of the wealthy tripe-man tendered a hand which felt as flabby as tripe
      itself; and Miss Clarissa Jemima was under the necessity of blushing deeply at her mamma's
      allusion to her contemplated change of situation.  
  Egerton gave Mr. Tedworth Jones the tip of his fore-finger, and then conducted the party up
      stairs to the drawing-room, where the ceremony of introducing his City relatives to his West
      End friends took place.  
  Lord Dunstable was most gallant in claiming Mrs. Bustard as "an old acquaintance;" and he
      even overcame his aristocratic prejudices so far as to shake hands with Mr. Tedworth Jones.
      Then the young ladies were introduced in due order; and, though they giggled with each other a
      great deal, and were dressed in very flaunting colours, they were all very good-looking; and
      this circumstance rendered Lord Dunstable, Sir Rupert Harborough, Colonel Cholmondeley, and
      Mr. Chichester particularly agreeable towards them.  
  "Well!" exclaimed Mrs. Bustard, throwing herself into an arm-chair, and wiping the
      perspiration from her fat face, "we really was scrooged up in that shay——"  
  "Glass-coach, mamma," said Miss Susannah Rachel, reprovingly.  
  sure! Six of us inside, and obleeged to sit on each other's knees."  
  "That will be just the very thing, madam, to render the trip more agreeable," said Mr.
      Chichester, with an affable smile.  
  "Provided the old lady doesn't sit on my knees," whispered Sir Rupert Harborough to Colonel
      Cholmondeley.  
  But Mr. Chichester's observation had made all the young ladies giggle, with the exception of
      Miss Clarissa Jemima, who blushed, and whispered to Mr. Jones something about such a remark
      being very unpleasant for a person "in her situation." Mr. Jones cast a sentimental glance
      upon his intended, and sighed very poetically as he assured Miss Clarissa that she was "a
      hangel."  
  "How are we going, Al dear?" asked Mrs. Bustard, after a pause; "and how far off is it?
      because I don't think the cattle in our shay are any very great shakes."  
  "On the contrary, aunt, I am afraid they   are   very great shakes indeed," replied
      Egerton, with miserable attempt at a joke. "But I think you will approve of the arrangements
      made."  
  "Oh! yes—I am sure of   that  ," hastily interposed Lord Dunstable, who perceived that
      his young friend was very far from happy. "Your nephew's establishment is not prepared for his
      reception yet; but we have done all we could to make you and your amiable daughters
      comfortable. Materials for an elegant collation were sent out yesterday; and my four-in-hand
      and the Colonel's phaeton, in addition to your glass-coach, will convey us all in a very short
      time to your nephew's country seat."  
  Scarcely were these words uttered when the four-in-hand and the phaeton alluded to, dashed
      up the street; and the tiger entered to announce their arrival.  
  Egerton immediately offered his arm to his aunt, well knowing that if he did not take care
      of her no one else would: Mr. Tedworth Jones escorted his intended; Lord Dunstable took one of
      the young ladies under his protection; and the three others of course fell respectively to the
      lot of Colonel Cholmondeley, Sir Rupert Harborough, and Mr. Chichester.  
  A fair and equitable distribution of the party took place between the three vehicles; and
      the cavalcade moved rapidly away in a northern direction, Mrs. Bustard assuring her nephew
      "that it was quite a blessing to get rid of so much scrooging and squeeging as she had
      previously endured."  
  The gentlemen were very agreeable, and the young ladles very amiable—although they every now
      and then simpered and giggled without much apparent cause; but then it must be recollected
      that they suddenly found themselves for the first time in their lives in the company of a
      Lord, a Baronet, and two Honourables, one of whom moreover was a Colonel.  
  The day was very fine: the air was as mild as if it were the month of May instead of March;
      and the whole party were in excellent spirits—for even Egerton recovered his natural gaiety
      when he saw that the affair was likely to pass off without any of those annoyances which he
      had feared would arise from the collision of Finsbury denizens and West End fashionables.  
  At length the open country was gained; and in due time the stately pile of Ravensworth Hall
      appeared in the distance. Nothing could equal the gratification which Mrs. Bustard and the
      five Misses Bustard experienced when the edifice was pointed out to them as Egerton's
      country-seat; and, without pausing to reflect how incompatible were his means with such a
      grand mansion, they felt no small degree of pride at the idea of claiming the proprietor of
      Ravensworth Hall as their own near relation.  
  "What a beautiful place!" whispered Miss Clarissa to Mr. Jones, who would insist on keeping
      her hand locked in his during the whole ride.  
  "Charming, dearest—charming!" replied the enamoured swain; "and so are you."  
  Miss Clarissa blushed for the thirtieth time that morning; and, as if the squeeze of the
      hand which Mr. Jones gave her as a proof of his undivided affection were not sufficient, he
      planted his boot upon her foot at the same time.  
  This is, however, so common a token of love in all civilised and enlightened countries, that
      Miss Clarissa Jemima received it as such, although the tender pressure somewhat impaired the
      snow-white propriety of her stocking.  
  "Oh! what an immense building!" exclaimed Miss Susannah Rachel Bustard, as the three
      carriages now swept through Ravensworth Park.  
  "Gigantic!" said another Miss Bustard.  
  "Very stupendous, indeed, ladies," observed Colonel Cholmondeley, who was seated in the same
      vehicle with two of Mrs. Bustard's fair daughters.  
  "And so this great large edifisk is yours, my dear Al?" said the good lady herself, as she
      thrust her head from the window of the glass-coach, and surveyed the building with ineffable
      satisfaction. "But what a sight of chimbleys it has, to be sure!"  
  "Because it has a great number of rooms, aunt," replied Egerton.  
  "What sweet balconies!" cried the enraptured lady.  
  "Yes," said Egerton: "and they will look very handsome when all the shutters are opened and
      the windows are filled with flowers and evergreens."  
  "Oh! to be sure," exclaimed Mrs. Bustard, joyfully. "Well, really, it is a most charming
      place; and I never did see such lovely chimbley-pots in all my life. Quite picturesque, I
      declare!"  
  The three carriages now stopped before the entrance of the Hall; and Lord Dunstable's
      lacquey gave a furious ring at the bell.  
  In a short time one of the folding-doors was slowly opened to a distance of about a foot,
      and an old man, wearing a strange brown wig surmounted by a paper cap, thrust his head forth.
      Then, having surveyed the party with a suspicious air for some moments, he opened the door a
      little wider and revealed the remainder of his form.  
  "Come, my good fellow," ejaculated Dunstable, as he rushed up the steps; "don't you know
      your new master, who is just handing that lady out of the glass-coach?"  
  This was intended as a hint to make the gardener aware of the particular individual who was
      to be passed off as the owner of Ravensworth Hall.  
  "Oh! ah!" said the man, in a drawling tone, as he took off the paper cap, and made a bow to
      the company; "I sees him, and a wery nice gentleman he is, I've no doubt. But I hope he'll
      ex-kooze me for not opening the gate at fust, because——"  
  "Because, I suppose," hastily interposed Dunstable, "you did not know who we all were."  
  "No that I didn't," continued the old man; "and I'm desperate afeard of
      thieves."  
  "Thieves!" cried Lord Dunstable: "what—in the broad day-light, and riding in carriages?"  
  "Lor, sir," said the gardener, turning a quid of tobacco from one side of his mouth to
      another, so that a swelling which at first appeared in his left cheek was suddenly transferred
      to the right; "me and my old 'ooman is wery lonesome in this great place; and we've heerd such
      strange stories about the tricks of thieves, that we never know what shape they may come
      in."  
  Dunstable cut short the old man's garrulity by inquiring if the baskets, that were sent on
      the previous day, had arrived; and, on receiving a round-about reply in the misty verbosity of
      which he perceived an affirmative, the nobleman desired Egerton to do the honours of his new
      mansion.  
  "My good man," said Mrs. Bustard, advancing in a stately fashion towards the gardener, who
      had replaced the paper cap on his head, and had tucked up his dirty apron, so that it looked
      like a reefed sail hanging to his waist,—"my good man, what is your name? I don't ask through
      imperent curiosity; but only because I am the aunt of your new master, and all them young
      ladies is my daughters, your new master's fust cousins in consequence; and it's more than
      likely that we shall pay a many visits to the Hall. So it is but right and proper that we
      should know by what name we're to call you."  
  The gardener was a little, shrivelled, stolid-looking old man; and there was something so
      ludicrous in the way in which he stared at Mrs. Bustard as she thus addressed him, that
      Cholmondeley and Chichester were compelled to turn aside to prevent themselves from bursting
      into a roar of laughter.  
  "My good fellow," said Dunstable, hastening forward to the rescue—for Egerton was trembling
      like a leaf through the fear of exposure,—"this lady puts a very proper question to you; but
      of course her nephew, your new master, is able to answer it."  
  "Well, now!" cried Mrs. Bustard, struck by this observation; "and I never thought of asking
      Albert! Why, it's nat'ral that one should know the names of one's own servants."  
  "To be sure," said Lord Dunstable, hastily; "and this worthy man's name is—is—ahem?"  
  "Oh! yes," observed Egerton, in a faint tone, "his name is——"  
  "Squiggs is my name, ma'am," said the gardener: "leastways, that's the name I've bore these
      nine-and-sixty blessed years past, come next Aperil—Abraham Squiggs at your service. And now
      that I've told you my name, ma'am, p'rhaps you'll be so obleeging as to tell me your'n?"  
  But Dunstable hastened to cut short this somewhat disagreeable scene,—which, by the way,
      never would have occurred, had he adopted the precaution of previously ascertaining the name
      of the gardener,—by desiring Mr. Abraham Squiggs to lead the way into the drawing-room
      prepared to receive the company.  
  This request was complied with; and the old man slowly proceeded up the marble staircase,
      followed by the whole party.  
  Mrs. Bustard and her daughters were highly delighted at the splendid appearance of the
      mansion; and their joy was expressed by repeated exclamations of
      "Beautiful!"—"Charming!"—"Quite a palace!"—"Well, I never!"—"Oh! the sweet place!"—and other
      sentences of equally significant meaning.  
  "Ah! this here mansion has seen a many strange things," said the old gardener, as he
      admitted the company into a handsome apartment, the shutters of which were open: "this wery
      room is the one where Mr. Gilbert Vernon throwed his-self out of winder about two years
      ago."  
  "Threw himself out of the window!" cried Mrs. Bustard; "and what did he do that for?"  
  "To kill his-self, ma'am," answered the old man. "I wasn't here at the time: I'd gone down
      into the country to see a garden that a friend o' mine manured with some stuff that he bought
      in a jar at the chemist's—about a pint of it to a acre. Ah! it's a wonderful thing, to be
      sure, to be able to carry manure enow for a whole garden in your veskit-pocket, as one may
      say."  
  "But you was speaking about a gentleman who threw himself out of the window?" said Mrs.
      Bustard, impatiently.  
  "Ah! so I were," continued the gardener. "It was told in the newspapers at the time; but no
      partickler cause was given. Oh! there was a great deal of mystery about all that business; and
      I don't like to say much on it, 'cos Mr. Vernon is knowed to walk."  
  "Known to walk!" exclaimed several of the ladies and gentlemen, all as it were speaking in
      one breath.  
  "Yes," returned the gardener, with a solemn shake of the head: "Gilbert Vernon sleeps in a
      troubled grave; and his sperret wanders about the mansion of a night. If it wasn't that me and
      my wife is old and friendless, and must go to the workus if we hadn't this place, we'd not
      sleep another night in Ravensworth Hall."  
  "Why, my dear Al!" ejaculated Mrs. Bustard, casting a terrified glance around, although the
      sun was shining gloriously and pouring a flood of golden lustre through the windows,—"you have
      gone and bought a haunted house, I do declare!"  
  "How charmingly poetical!" whispered the tripeman's son to Miss Clarissa Jemima: "only
      think, dearest—a haunted house!"  
  "Yes, Tedworth—I do indeed think——"  
  "What? beloved one!" asked the sentimental swain.  
  "That I hope we shall leave it before it grows dusk," returned the young lady, who evidently
      saw nothing poetical in the matter at all.  
  "My dear aunt," said Egerton, in reply to the observation which his relative had addressed
      to him, "I am not so silly as to be frightened by tales of ghosts and spirits; and I would as
      soon sleep in this room as in any other throughout the mansion."  
  "No, you wouldn't, young man—no, indeed, you wouldn't!" exclaimed the gardener, in so
      earnest and impressive a manner that the young ladies huddled together like terrified lambs,
      and even the gentlemen now began to listen to the old man with more attention than they had
      hitherto shown: "I say, sir, that you would   not   like to sleep in this room—for, as
      sure as there is a God above us, have me and my wife seen the sperret of Gilbert Vernon
      standing at dusk in that very balcony which he throwed his-self from."  
  "Dear! dear!" whispered all the young ladies together.  
  "And what was he like?" asked Mrs. Bustard.  
  "Why, ma'am," returned the gardener, "he was dressed all in deep black; but his face were as
      pale as a corpse's; and when the moonbeams fell on it, me and my wife could see that it was
      the face of a dead man as well as I can see e'er a one of you at this present speaking."  
  "Egad! you have bought a nice property, Egerton," said Lord Dunstable, turning towards his
      young friend. "I shall propose that we return to London again before it grows dusk."  
  "Decidedly—since you are so disposed," returned Egerton, who was rejoiced to think that the
      old gardener had started a topic so well calculated to frighten his aunt and cousins away from
      the Hall some hours earlier than they might have otherwise been induced to leave it.  
  "'Pon my honour, all this is vastly entertaining!" exclaimed Sir Rupert Harborough. "But how
      long ago was it that you saw the ghost, my good friend?"  
  "How long ago?" repeated the old man, slowly: "why, I have seen it a matter of fifty—or, may
      be a hundred times. The fust time, me and my wife was together: we had been across the fields
      to a farm-house to get some milk, butter, and what not; and we was a-coming home through the
      Park, when we see a dark object in the balcony there. My wife looks—and I looks—and sure enow
      there it were.—'  What do you think it is?  ' says she.—'  I think it's a thief  ,'
      says I.—'  No it ain't  ,' say she: '  it don't move; and a thief wouldn't stand there
       to amuse his-self  .'—'  No more he would  ,' says I: '  let's go near, for no one
       won't harm two poor old creaturs like us  .' And we went close under the balcony, and
      looked up; but never shall I forget, or my old 'ooman either, the awful pale face that stared
      down upon us! Then we recollected that that wery balcony was the one which Mr. Vernon had
      throwed his-self from; and that was enow for us. We knowed we had seen his sperret!"  
  "Oh! dear, if it should come now!" murmured Miss Clarissa, who was so alarmed—or at least
      seemed to be—that she was forced to throw herself into the arms of Mr. Tedworth Jones.  
  "Well—this is what I call a leetle dilemmy that you're got into, Albert," said Mrs. Bustard;
      "for you'll never be able to live in this place."  
  "And no one else—unless it is such poor old helpless creaturs as me and my wife," said the
      gardener. "Since the fust time we see the sperret—and that's near a year and a half ago—we've
      seen him a many, many times; but he don't hurt us—we've got used to him, as one may say."  
  "If this be the room that your ghost frequents," exclaimed Colonel Cholmondeley, "why did
      you select it for our reception to-day, since there are so many other apartments in the
      mansion?"  
  The gardener looked confused, and made a movement as if he were about to leave the room.  
  "Oh! do make him tell us why he chose this apartment of all others!" whispered Mrs. Bustard
      to her nephew.  
  "My good fellow," said Egerton, thus urged on in a manner to which he could not reasonably
      object in his presumed capacity of owner of the mansion,—"my good fellow, did you not hear the
      question addressed to you by Colonel Cholmondeley?"  
  "Yes," replied the gardener, abruptly.  
  "Then, why—why do you not answer it?" said Egerton, not daring to speak in a firm or
      commanding tone.  
  "Why—if you're koorious to know, I han't no objection to tell you," responded the old
      gardener, after a few moments' consideration. "You see, when the establishment was broke up
      just after Lady Ravensworth left the Hall on a sudden, and when her lawyer come down here to
      discharge the servants, except me and my wife, who was put in charge o' the place, he goes
      through the whole building, has all the shutters shut, and locks up all the rooms——"  
  "Yes, yes—of course," interposed Dunstable, hastily: "because the mansion was to be sold
      just as it stood, with all the furniture in it."  
  "But he give us the keys, in course," continued the gardener; "on'y he told us to keep the
      rooms locked, and the shutters shut, when we wasn't dusting or cleaning. Well, the wery next
      day arter we see the sperret in the balcony, me and my wife come up to this room together, and
      sure enow the shutters was open!"  
  "And they had been closed before?" asked one of the young ladies, in a tremulous tone.  
  "As sure as you're there, Miss," replied the old man, "what I now tell you is as true as
      true can be. But the door was locked—and that made it more koorious still."  
  "It is clear that the shutters in this one particular room had been left open when all the
      others were closed," said Colonel Cholmondeley, with a contemptuous smile; for he began to
      grow weary of the old man's garrulity.  
  "Well—and if they was," cried Abraham Squiggs, in an angry tone,—for the Colonel's remark
      seemed to convey an imputation against his veracity,—"me and my wife shut 'em up again, and
      locked the door when we went out."  
  "And what followed?" inquired two or three of the Misses Bustard, speaking in low voices
      which indicated breathless curiosity.  
  "Why, that next night the shutters was opened again," answered the old man, fixing a
      reproachful glance upon the sceptical Colonel.  
  The young ladies shuddered visibly, and crowded together;—Mrs. Bustard again cast a timorous
      glance around;—and the gentlemen knew not what to make of the gardener's story.  
  "Yes," continued the old man, now triumphing in the impression which he had evidently made
      upon his audience; "and from that moment till now I've never set foot in this here
      drawing-room. But the sperret is often here; for sometimes the shutters stays open for two or
      three days—sometimes they're closed for weeks together."  
  "But what has all that to do with your bringing us to this very room on the present
      occasion?" asked Egerton, his aunt again prompting the question.  
  "Now don't be angry, sir, and I'll tell you," replied the gardener, remembering that he was
      to treat Mr. Egerton as the owner of the place. "The shutters has been shut for a matter of
      three weeks up to last night; and so when I see 'em open agen, I says to my wife, says I,
       '  Now's the time to see what the sperret raly wants, and why he troubles that room.
       There's a power of fine folks a-coming to-morrow  ,' says I; '  walks.  '—'  Do so  ,' says my old o'oman: and by rights I shouldn't
      have said a word about the sperret at all;—but it come out some how or another; and now you
      know all."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And we are very much obleeged, indeed, for being put into a haunted room," exclaimed Mrs.
      Bustard, bridling up.  
  "Oh! the joke is a capital one!" cried Cholmondeley; "and we will stay here by all means. If
      the ladies should be frightened, the gentlemen must take them upon their knees."  
  "Oh!   this   before one in my situation!" whispered Clarissa Jemima to her lover.  
  "It is too bad, my charmer," returned the poetical tripe-man.  
  But the Colonel's observation, however grievously it shocked the tender couple, had only
      produced a vast amount of giggling and blushing on the part of the four Misses Bustards who
      were   not   engaged to be married; and the result was that no serious opposition
      manifested itself to Cholmondeley's proposal to occupy that particular room.  
  "Pray be seated, ladies and gentlemen," said Egerton, now taking upon himself the duties of
      a host: "and excuse me for a few minutes while I ascertain that every thing necessary for your
      entertainment has been provided."  
  Egerton accordingly left the room, beckoning Abraham Squiggs to follow him.  
  The gardener conducted his temporary master to the kitchen, where Mrs. Squiggs was busily
      engaged in unpacking the hampers of wine and cold provisions sent on the preceding day. She
      was as like her husband as if she had been his sister instead of his wife; and therefore the
      reader is prepared to hear that she was a little, shrivelled, dirty old woman, possessing a
      face and hands apparently at open war with soap and water.  
  She was, however, very good-natured, and seemed quite at home in the occupation to which her
      attention was at present directed.  
  Being unaware of the approach of her husband and a stranger, she continued aloud the
      soliloquy in which she was engaged previous to their entrance.  
  here," said the old lady, in a voice that seemed as if it sounded through a
      cracked speaking-trumpet; "glorious ham—four cold chicken—and tongues, reg'lar picturs! Two
      could pies—weal and ham most likely—leastways, unless one's beef. Six lobsters—flask of
      ile—and bottle of winegar. But what's this heavy feller? Cold round of biled beef;—and here's
      a blessed quarter of lamb. They'll want mint-sarse for that. What next? Four great German
      sassages—excellent eating, I'll bet a penny! No end of bread—half a Cheshire cheese—whole
      Stilton—and that's all in this basket."  
  Mrs. Squiggs had just finished the pleasing task of ranging all these succulent edibles upon
      the dresser, when she turned round and beheld her husband, accompanied by a stranger, who was
      forthwith introduced as Mr. Egerton, the temporary master of the Hall.  
  The old lady bobbed down and up again—thereby meaning a curtsey; for the natural good nature
      of her disposition was materially enhanced by the pleasing prospect of coming in for the
      remainder of the splendid collation which she had just been admiring.  
  Egerton and the gardener hastened to unpack the wine; and when this task was accomplished,
      the young man addressed the old one in these terms:—  
  "My friend Lord Dunstable gave you five pounds the other day as a slight recompense for your
      civility in allowing me the use of the Hall on this occasion. Here is another five-pound note
      for you; but pray be upon your guard should either of the ladies take it into their heads to
      question you concerning my right to this property. I, however, perceive that you are well
      disposed to aid me in this little innocent cheat upon my relations; and I really give you
      great credit for the ghost-story which you told to get rid of them all as soon as
      possible."  
  "Thank'ee kindly for the money, sir," exclaimed the gardener; "but as I'm a living sinner
      which hopes to be saved, every word I said up stairs about the sperret is as true as the
      Gospel."  
  "Ridiculous!" cried Egerton: "you cannot seriously believe in such a thing? Who ever heard
      of ghosts in these times?"  
  "Well, sir," said the man, in a solemn tone, "don't let's talk any more about it—'cos it
      might bring bad luck to disbelieve in ghosts where a ghost walks."  
  Egerton was about to reply; but he checked himself—remembering that it was useless to argue
      against a deeply-rooted superstition. He accordingly gave some instructions relative to the
      collation, which he ordered to be served up in the course of an hour; and, having renewed his
      injunctions as to caution in respect to his supposed ownership of the estate, he returned to
      the drawing-room where he had left the company.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLVI.   THE PARTY AT RAVENSWORTH HALL.  
  During Albert Egerton's absence, the conversation in the drawing-room had at first turned
      upon the subject of the old gardener's statements respecting the ghost.  
  Lord Dunstable, Mr. Chichester, and Sir Rupert Harborough expressed their firm belief in the
      truth of the story—simply because they were anxious to serve their friend Egerton, and get the
      aunt and cousins back again to London as speedily as possible. For they feared that if an
      exposure were to take place, and if the deception relative to the ownership of the Hall were
      by any accident to transpire, the remonstrances, reproaches, and accompanying advice which
      Egerton's relations were certain to lavish upon him, might have the effect of reclaiming him
      entirely—a prospect by no means pleasant to the minds of those adventurers, who were resolved
      to pluck him to his very last feather.  
  Colonel Cholmondeley, although completely agreeing with his friends in all matters of this
      nature, nevertheless proclaimed his total disbelief of the ghost story. This he did simply
      because it would have appeared too pointed had all Egerton's friends combined unanimously in
      recommending that the party should return to London immediately after the collation.  
  "For my part," said Mr. Tedworth Jones, "I believe every word that the old man uttered.
      Love, poetry, and ghosts seem to me to go together. For what is love, unless the lover who
      loses her whom he loves, can soothe the agony of his mind by the conviction that she—the dear
      lost one—is ever near him in the shape of a disembodied spirit?"  
  And, having delivered himself of this splendid proof of his poetic mind, Mr. Tedworth Jones
      glanced triumphantly around him.  
  "How sweet you do talk, to be sure, my dear Tedworth!" murmured the enraptured Clarissa
      Jemima. "It was your conversation," she added, in a loving whisper, "that first made an
      impression upon my heart."  
  "And did my poetry have no influence, dearest?" asked Mr. Jones, in a tone of increasing
      mawkishness, and so far above a whisper that the words were overheard by Mr. Chichester.  
  "Ah! now I have found you out, Mr. Jones!" cried this gentleman, who most probably had
      certain reasons of his own for playing the amiable towards the wealthy tripeman's heir:
      "you're a poet—eh? Well—I thought so from the very first. In fact you have the air of a
      poet—you wear your collar like a poet—you look altogether like a poet."  
  Now, although Mr. Tedworth Jones looked at that precise moment, and at most other moments
      also, more like an ass than a poet, he nevertheless felt the compliment in its most flattering
      sense; and after a considerable degree of whispering on his part with Clarissa, and giggling
      and whispering also on hers, it transpired that Mr. Tedworth Jones had addressed to his
      beloved a great variety of poetical compositions.  
  "And I can assure you that they are very pretty too," cried Mrs. Bustard, who was by no
      means an indifferent spectatress of this scene.  
  "But you should print them, my dear sir—you should print them," exclaimed Mr. Chichester.
      "Let the world welcome you at once as a great poet."  
  "Well," said Mr. Tedworth Jones, his whole countenance becoming as red as his hair, so that
      it seemed as if he were about to go off in a state of spontaneous combustion; "I did venture
      to print little piece a few weeks ago."  
  "Indeed!" said Chichester, apparently much delighted at this announcement: "in some
      periodical, I presume?"  
  "No—it was to have been struck off on a few sheets of gilt-edged paper—just to
      circulate privately amongst my friends, you know," replied Mr. Jones: "but really the
      compositors made such an awful mull of the first proof that I never had the courage to let
      them go on!"  
  "That was a very great pity," observed Chichester.  
  "I can show you the original copy and the first proof, if you like," continued Mr. Jones;
      "and you may then judge for yourself how far I was justified in being angry with the
      printers."  
  Mr. Chichester of course expressed the utmost curiosity to see the poem and the proof; and
      the favour was conceded by Mr. Jones, after some slight opposition on the part of Clarissa,
      who thought that such a display was improper in respect to a lady "in her situation."  
  The papers were, however, handed over to Mr. Chichester, who began by reading aloud the
      following manuscript copy of verses:—  
  
  TO CLARISSA JEMIMA.  
  Oh! sweet Clarissa—ever dearest love!  
  What palpitations does my fond heart prove  
  When thy coy hand I press!  
  Who can depict th' ineffable delight  
   With which thy glances break upon the night  
   Of my sad loneliness?   
  True as the Boreal Lights unto the Pole,  
  Those looks shed lustre on my sadden'd soul,  
  And bid sweet visions rise  
  To cheer me in my wandering path, and give  
  A plea to nurse the thought that I may live  
  To bask in thy bless'd eyes!  
  Yes—dark as seemeth this wide world to me,  
  Perverse as human hearts appear to be,  
  Thou art all truth and joy!  
  For thee the incense of my altar burns;  
  To thee my grateful memory ever turns  
  With bliss that ne'er can cloy!  
  
  These verses were received with great applause by all present; but during the reading of
      them Clarissa had thought it quite becoming for a young lady "in her situation" to burst into
      tears, and throw herself in a sort of hysterical frenzy into her mamma's arms.  
  This little bit of tragedy was, however, soon got over; and, the manuscript copy of the
      verses having been disposed of, Mr. Chichester proceeded to read aloud the first proof of the
      stanzas in print:—  
  
  TO ALRISSA GEMINI.  
  Oh! sweet Alrissa—ever cleanest bore!  
  What fluctuations does my proud heart pour  
  When thy toy's hand I guess!  
  Who can defect th' inexorable delight  
  With which thy flounces break upon the sight  
  Of my bad loveliness?  
  Trim as the Rascal Sights unto the Pole,  
  Those locks shed bistre on my padded soul,  
  And bid smart onions rise  
  To churn me in my mantling path and give  
  A flea to nerve the thought that I may live  
  To bask in thy blear'd eyes!  
  You bark as smelleth this vile work to me,  
  Peruse as human beasts appear to be,  
  Then act all trash and gag!  
  For thee the nonsense of my utter brims;  
  To thee my platefull simmering ever trims  
  With flies that now can't bag!  
  
  "I think you will grant that the printers made a slight mull of my writing?" said Mr. Jones,
      when Chichester had brought this specimen of typography to a conclusion.  
  "Yes—a slight mull, as you observe," returned this gentleman, who, together with his own
      friends, was scarcely able to repress a boisterous outbreak of mirth. "But it is impossible to
      feel any annoyance at that strange assemblage of misconceptions on the part of the printer,
      since the original itself is so perfectly beautiful."  
  "Oh! yes—so very charming!" whispered Clarissa Jemima to her lover.  
  Mr. Jones looked a complete encyclopædia of tender emotions; and the happy couple,
      forgetting that other persons were present, continued their discourse in whispers.  
  "Well, I declare," said Miss Susannah Rachel, after a pause, "I don't think I shall ever
      again be able to sleep without a light in the room, after all that has been told us about the
      ghost."  
  "And I shall always cover my head over with the clothes," lisped another female specimen of
      the Bustard race.  
  "I've been told," remarked the fourth daughter, "that a horse-shoe nailed to the door of a
      room will prevent evil spirits from passing the threshold."  
  "Or sleep with a Bible under your pillow," said the fifth Miss Bustard.  
  "That's all very well, gals," observed the parent of this most interesting family; "but
      ghostesses won't be kept away by such means as them. Where there's evil spirits, there evil
      spirits will be."  
  "Nothing can possibly be clearer, madam," exclaimed Lord Dunstable.  
  "And if they must walk, they will walk," continued Mrs. Bustard.  
  "Your arguments are really admirable, madam."  
  "And so it's of no use bothering oneself about it—beyond getting away as soon as possible
      from the place where ghostesses are," added the lady.  
  "Were you of the other sex, madam, I should say you had graduated at Oxford," remarked the
      nobleman; "for you reason with all the logic of Euclid."  
  "Is Mr. Euclid such a very clever man, my lord?" asked Mrs. Bustard.  
  Dunstable was suddenly seized with a violent fit of coughing:—at least so it appeared to the
      good-natured old lady; inasmuch as he was forced to keep his handkerchief to his mouth for a
      considerable time.  
  Egerton now re-appeared, and suggested a ramble about the grounds, while the collation was
      being spread. Mrs. Bustard was anxious to go over the mansion; but Egerton negatived that
      proposal by stating that as he had not yet compared the contents of the various rooms with the
      inventory, it would not be fair to institute any such examination unless attended by the
      persons in charge of the place; and they were too busy with the preparations for the luncheon
      to spare time for that purpose.  
  The ramble was accordingly agreed to; and the party descended to the gardens.  
  in this lonely place until you marry, and have a companion."  
  "Marry!" exclaimed Egerton, into whose head the idea had only entered as one suggesting a
      means to repair his fortunes, when they should be completely shattered.  
  "Yes—marry, to be sure!" continued his good-natured but garrulous relative. "Let me see—I
      think I could make up an excellent match for you. What should you say to Miss Posselwaithe,
      the great paviour's daughter?"  
  "Oh! my dear madam," exclaimed Lord Dunstable, "your nephew may look somewhat higher than a
      paviour's daughter.   I   intend that he shall marry a lady of title as well as of
      fortune. Only think how well it will sound in the   Morning Herald  —'  Mr. and
       Lady Egerton, of Ravensworth Park  .'"  
  "So it would—so it would!" cried the aunt, delighted with the prospect thus held out.  
  And in this way they chatted until the bell on the roof of the Hall rang to summon them to
      the collation.  
  The table was spread in "the haunted room;" and the company took their places with a
      determination to do ample justice to the excellent cheer.  
  We have already given the reader to understand that there was a most liberal supply of
      eatables provided for this occasion: we should also state that the wine was equally plentiful
      and good; and the champagne soon circulated with great freedom. Mrs. Bustard permitted Lord
      Dunstable to fill her glass as often as he chose; and that was very often indeed. As for her
      daughters, they one and all declared to the gentlemen who respectively sate next to them, that
      they really could not possibly think of taking more than a quarter of a glass; but it happened
      that, after a great deal of simpering, giggling, and blushing, they managed to toss off each a
      bumper; and somehow or another their eyes were averted when their glasses were being refilled;
      and on the third occasion of such replenishment, they took it as a matter of course.  
  Things went on so comfortably, that Egerton's spirits rose to as high a state of exuberance
      as if he were really the owner of the splendid mansion in which he was entertaining his
      relations and friends:—Mrs. Bustard declared that she never had seen any thing so pleasant
      since the day when her poor deceased husband and herself dined with the Lord Mayor;—Mr.
      Tedworth Jones insisted upon singing a song which he had himself composed to his intended, and
      the two first lines of which delicately eulogised the fair "Clarissa," and plainly stated how
      grieved the poet would be to "miss her;"—and even the young lady herself was so happy and
      contented that she forgot to reproach her lover for thus publicly complimenting one "in her
      situation."  
  Dunstable flattered the old lady: Cholmondeley, Harborough, and Chichester made themselves
      agreeable to the young ones; and every thing was progressing as "merry as a marriage bell,"
      when the old gardener rushed franticly into the room, carrying his paper cap in one hand, his
      wig in the other, and bawling at the top of his cracked voice, "A corpse! a corpse!"  
  Every one started from his seat around the table, and surveyed the gardener with looks of
      astonishment.  
  For a moment Egerton and his four fashionable friends imagined that this was some scheme of
      the gardener to break up the party, and was therefore to some extent a stratagem in favour of
      Egerton himself: but a second glance at the horror-struck countenance of the old man convinced
      them that his present conduct was far different from a mere feint.  
  "A corpse! a corpse!" he repeated, casting haggard looks around.  
  "What in the name of heaven do you mean?" demanded Egerton, now advancing towards him.  
  The gardener sank, trembling all over, upon a seat; and Egerton made him swallow a glass of
      wine.  
  In a few minutes he grew more composed, put on his wig,—which, it seemed, bad fallen off as
      he was rushing up the stairs,—and then related in his characteristic round-about manner the
      causes of his ejaculations and his alarms.  
  But it will perhaps suit the convenience of the reader much better if we explain the whole
      affair in our own language, and as succinctly as possible.  
  It appeared, then, that while the company in the drawing-room were discussing their wine,
      and the gardener, his wife, and the servants in attendance upon the vehicles, were dining off
      the remains of the banquet in the kitchen, a stout, hearty, decently dressed man, of about
      eight-and-forty years of age, was passing through a field near Ravensworth Hall. He was
      accompanied by a beautiful terrier, with which he amused himself by throwing a small stick to
      as great a distance as he could, and making the dog fetch it back to him. The little animal
      was very sagacious, and performed its duty well: until at last the man threw the stick into a
      certain part of the field where the dog persisted in remaining, instead of hastening back to
      its master. Vainly did the man whistle and call from a distance: the dog would not obey him,
      but kept scratching in a particular spot from which it would not stir. Thither did the man
      accordingly proceed; and, on reaching the spot, he found the dog working away with its little
      paws in a hollow which had doubtless been caused by the recent rains. At the same time a
      nauseous effluvium assailed the man's nostrils; and, on examining the spot more attentively,
      he discovered—to his indescribable horror—a human hand protruding from the soil!  
  It was almost a skeleton-hand; but the black and rotting flesh still clung to it, and the
      fibres were not so far decomposed as to cease to hold the joints of the fingers together.  
  Seizing the dog in his arms, the man tore the little animal away from the spot where so
      appalling a spectacle appeared; and, without farther hesitation, he hurried to the Hall.
      Having found his way to the servants' offices, he communicated his discovery to the old
      gardener and to the servants who had accompanied Egerton's party to the mansion. The first
      impulse of Abraham Squiggs was to hurry up stairs and alarm the guests with the strange news
      thus brought; but Lord Dunstable's lacquey suggested the impropriety of disturbing the
      company, and proposed that the spot should be first examined by means of mattocks and
      spades.  
  left behind: she was accordingly allowed to form one of the party.  
  On reaching the spot, the news which the stranger had imparted were found to be correct; and
      the exposed member was viewed with looks of horror and alarm.  
  "Some foul deed has been committed," said the stranger; "but I have always heard and read
      that God will sooner or later bring murder to light."  
  "Ah! and that's true enow, I'll warrant!" exclaimed the old gardener. "The body which that
      hand belongs to, was no doubt buried deep; but the rains overflowed yonder pond, and the water
      made itself a way along here, you see—so that it has hollered the earth out several foot."  
  "Well—it's of no use talking," said the stranger: "but make haste and dig down here, old
      gentleman—so that we may see whether the hand has an arm, and the arm a body."  
  The gardener took the spade, and set to work; but he trembled so violently that he was
      unable to proceed for many minutes. The stranger accordingly snatched the spade from his
      hands, and addressed himself resolutely to the task.  
  While he was thus employed, the others stood by in profound silence; but the dog ran in a
      timid manner round the spot, sometimes barking—then whining mournfully.  
  His master worked speedily, but carefully; and as each shovel-full of earth was thrown up,
      and as the proofs that an entire human body lay beneath became every instant more apparent,
      the spectators exchanged glances of augmenting horror.  
  But when at length the entire form of a human being was laid bare scarcely two feet below
      the bottom of the hollow,—when their eyes fell upon the blackened flesh of the decomposing
      head, the features of which were no longer traceable,—and when the rotting remnants of attire
      showed that the being who had there found a grave was of the female sex, a cry burst
      simultaneously from every lip.  
  "Here's work for the Coroner, at all events," observed the stranger, after a long pause. "We
      must move the body to the big house there——"  
  "Move the body to the Hall!" cried the old gardener and his wife, in the same breath, and
      both looking aghast at this announcement.  
  "Yes—most certainly," answered the stranger. "Would you leave a Christian—as I hope that
      poor woman was—to be devoured by rats and other vermin? I might have done so once: but, thank
      God! I have become a better man since then. Howsomever, get us a plank or two, old gentleman;
      and we'll do our duty in a proper manner."  
  The gardener retraced his way, in a sulky mood, and with much mumbling to himself, to the
      Hall, and presently returned with a couple of planks and two stout pieces of wood to serve as
      cross-beams to form the bier. The corpse was then carefully placed upon the planks, but not
      without great risk of its falling to pieces while being thus moved; and, the bier having been
      hoisted on the shoulders of the stranger, Dunstable's lacquey, the seedy coachman, and Colonel
      Cholmondeley's groom, the procession moved towards the Hall, the gardener and his wife at the
      head.  
  But when the party arrived, with its appalling burden, near the mansion, the old man and
      woman began to exchange hasty whispers together.  
  "What is the matter now?" asked the stranger.  
  "Why, sir," replied the gardener, in a hesitating manner, "me and my wife has been
      a-thinking together that it would be as well to put the remains of that poor creetur as far
      from our own rooms as possible: 'cos what with a sperret here and a dead body there——"  
  "Well, well—old man," interrupted the stranger, impatiently; "this load is heavy, and I for
      one shall be glad to put it down somewhere. So leave off chattering uselessly—and tell us in a
      word what you do mean."  
  "To be sure," returned the gardener: "this way—this way."  
  And, as he spoke, he opened a small door at the southern end of the building, by means of a
      key which he selected from a bunch hanging beneath his apron.  
  "We never can get up that staircase, old gentleman," said the stranger, plunging his glances
      through the door-way.  
  "It's easier than you think—the stairs isn't so steep as they seem," returned the gardener;
      "and what's more," he added, doggedly, "you may either bring your burden this way, or leave it
      in the open air altogether."  
  "To be sure," chimed in the old woman: "if you don't choose to put the body in the very
      farthermost room from our end of the building, you may take it back again; and them stairs
      leads to the room that   is   farthermost off."  
  The stranger, who was a willing, good-natured man, and who seemed to study only how he
      should best perform a Christian duty, offered no farther remonstrance; but, respecting the
      prejudices of the old people, succeeded, by the aid of his co-operators, in conveying the bier
      up the staircase. On reaching the landing, the gardener opened the door of a room the shutters
      of which were closed; but through the chinks there streamed sufficient light to show that the
      apartment was a bed-chamber.  
  "Put it down there—on the carpet," said the gardener, who was anxious to terminate a
      proceeding by no means agreeable to him.  
  The bier was conveyed into the room, and placed upon the floor.  
  At that moment—while the gardener and his wife remained standing in the passage—the old man
      suddenly caught hold of the woman's arm with a convulsive grasp, and whispered in a hasty and
      hollow tone, "Hark! there's a footstep!"  
  "Yes—I hear it too!" returned his wife, in a scarcely audible tone: and, through very
      fright, she repeated, "There—there—there!" as often as the footstep fell—or seemed to
      fall—upon her ears.  
  "At the end of the passage——" murmured the gardener.  
  "Do you see any thing?" asked his wife, clinging to him.  
  "No—but it's certain to be the sperret," returned the man.  
  And they leant on each other for support.  
  At the next moment the four men came from the interior of the room where they had deposited
      the corpse; and the two old people began to breathe more freely.  
  The gardener hurried his wife and companions down the narrow staircase, and pushed them all
      hastily from the threshold of the little door, which he carefully locked behind him.  
  invitation to step in and refresh himself, he led the way to the offices at the
      opposite extremity of the building.  
  But scarcely had the party gained the servants' hall, when the old gardener, whose mind was
      powerfully excited by all that had just occurred, hastened abruptly away; and, rushing up the
      great staircase, he burst into the drawing-room, exclaiming, "A corpse! a corpse!"  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLVII.   THE STRANGER WHO DISCOVERED THE CORPSE.  
  Perhaps there is no other cry in the world, save that of "Fire!" more calculated to spread
      terror and dismay, when falling suddenly and unexpectedly upon the ears of a party of
      revellers, than that of "A corpse! a corpse!"  
  Before a single question can be put, or a word of explanation be given, each one who hears
      that ominous announcement revolves a thousand dread conjectures in his mind: for although that
      cry might in reality herald nothing more appalling than a case of sudden death from natural
      causes, yet the imagination instinctively associates it with the foulest deed of treachery and
      murder.  
  Such was the case in the present instance.  
  The entire party started from their seats; and the smiles that were a moment before upon
      their countenances gave place to looks of profound horror and intense curiosity.  
  The feelings thus denoted did not experience any mitigation from the inquiring glances that
      were cast towards the gardener; for the entire appearance of the old man was far more
      calculated to augment than diminish the alarm which his strange cry had originated. His eyes
      rolled wildly in their sockets—his quivering lips were livid—his frame seemed to be influenced
      by one continuous shudder, and his breath came with difficulty.  
  In fact, the mysterious sounds of footsteps in the passage had worked up his feelings,
      already greatly moved by the discovery and exhumation of the rotting carcass of a female, to a
      degree of excitement doubly painful to behold in one so bowed with the weight of years as he;
      and he sank into a seat, as we have before said, in a state of almost complete exhaustion.  
  The wine that Egerton compelled him to swallow partially restored him; and in the course of
      a few minutes he was enabled to relate the particulars which we have succinctly placed before
      the reader.  
  The ladies were cruelly shocked by the narrative that thus met their ears; and they one and
      all declared that nothing should ever again induce them to visit a place into possession of
      which their relative seemed to have entered under the most inauspicious circumstances. They
      also requested to be taken back to London with the least possible delay; and Sir Rupert
      Harborough, with his friend Chichester, hastened to give the servants orders to get the
      vehicles ready.  
  Mrs. Bustard and her daughters retired into an ante-room to put on their bonnets and shawls:
      Egerton, Dunstable, Cholmondeley, and Tedworth Jones remained standing round the chair on
      which the old gardener was still seated.  
  "This is a most extraordinary thing," said Dunstable, after a pause, during which he had
      reflected profoundly: then, addressing himself to his friend the Colonel, he asked in a
      serious tone, "Does not the strange discovery just made remind you of something that I
      mentioned to you nearly two years ago?"  
  "I recollect!" cried the Colonel: "you allude to the mysterious disappearance of Lydia
      Hutchinson."  
  "I do," answered the nobleman. "That event occurred while I was lying wounded in this
      house."  
  "Ah! I heerd of it, to be sure!" said the gardener. "But I was down in the country when all
      them things took place—I was there for some months. Do you think——"  
  "No—it could not be!" interrupted Dunstable: "for it was well known at the time that Lydia
      decamped with Lady Ravensworth's jewel-box."  
  Colonel Cholmondeley turned away, and said nothing: he remembered the evidences of desperate
      enmity between Adeline and Lydia, which had come within his own cognisance; and a vague—a very
      vague, distant, and undefined suspicion that the corpse just discovered might indeed be that
      of Lydia Hutchinson, entered his mind. But he speedily banished it: for the idea that Lady
      Ravensworth could have had any thing to do with the murder of Lydia did not seem tenable for a
      moment.  
  "As your lordship says," observed the old gardener, after a long pause, and now addressing
      himself to Dunstable, "it can't have any thing to do with that young o'oman who was here a few
      weeks as my lady's maid—'cos it's well knowed that she bolted off with the jewel-casket, as
      your lordship says."  
  Here Cholmondeley advanced towards Dunstable, took him by the arm, and, leading him aside,
      said in a hasty whisper, "Let us leave this matter where it is. Should the body just
      discovered be really that of Lydia Hutchinson, who disappeared so strangely, it would be very
      annoying for us to have to explain to a Coroner's jury all we know about her and Lady
      Ravensworth."  
  "Truly so," answered Dunstable. "And, after all, it is no affair of ours."  
  This understanding being arrived at, the nobleman and his friend returned to the table,
      where they helped themselves to some champagne to allay, as they said, the disagreeable
      sensations produced by the sudden interruption which their mirth had experienced.  
  The day seemed to be marked out by destiny as one on which various adventures were to occur
      in respect to the excursion party to Ravensworth Hall.  
  It will be remembered that Sir Rupert Harborough and Chichester had left the drawing-room
      for the purpose of seeing the vehicles got ready with the least possible delay.  
  The two friends—whom the associated roguery of many years had rendered as intimate as even
      brothers could be—proceeded down stairs, and, after some little trouble, found their way to
      the servants' offices. Guided by a sound of voices, they threaded a passage, and at length
      found themselves on the threshold of the room where the gardener's wife, the stranger who had
      first discovered the body, the seedy coachman, the lacquey, and the groom, were still
      discussing the incident that had so recently occurred.  
  at the door, the stranger started from his seat, exclaiming in a loud tone, "Well
      met, I declare! You're the very identical men I've long been wanting to see!"  
  And, putting his arms akimbo, he advanced towards them in a manner which appeared extremely
      free and independent in the eyes of the lacqueys.  
  "Ah! my good friend Talbot!" cried the baronet, for a moment thrown off his guard, but
      speedily recovering himself: "upon my honour I am delighted to see you!"  
  "So am I—quite charmed to find you looking so well!" exclaimed Chichester.  
  "No thanks to either of you, howsomever," said the individual thus addressed, and without
      appearing to notice the hands that were extended to him. "But you know as well as I do that my
      name isn't Talbot at all; it's Bill Pocock—and, I may add, too, without telling a lie, that
      it's now   honest Bill Pocock  ."  
  "Well, my dear Pocock," exclaimed Chichester, with a glance that implored his forbearance,
      "I am really quite happy to see you. But we will step out into the garden, and just talk over
      a few little matters——"  
  "Oh! gentlemen," said the gardener's wife, coming forward, "you're quite welcome to step
      into our little parlour t'other side of the passage—if so be you have any thing private to
      talk about."  
  "Thank you—that will exactly suit us," returned Chichester, hastily: and, taking Pocock's
      arm, he drew him into the room thus offered for their privacy.  
  The baronet remained behind for a few moments, to give the necessary instructions to the
      servants relative to preparing the vehicles; and, this being done, he rejoined Chichester and
      Pocock.  
  When the trio were thus assembled in the gardener's little parlour, Pocock said, "So I find
      you two chaps still pursuing the old game. Got in with a young cit named Egerton—and all his
      relations—eh? Pretty goings on, I've no doubt."  
  "Only just in a friendly way, my dear fellow," exclaimed Chichester. "But you stated that
      you had been looking for me and Harborough for a long time?"  
  "Yes—I was anxious enough to see you both," returned Pocock: "and I'll tell you the reason
      why. You remember that night—some few years ago—when you two got such a precious walloping at
      the   Dark House   in Brick Lane, Spitalfields?"  
  "Well—well," said the baronet: "go on."  
  "Oh! I see you haven't forgot it! You also know that on that same night the very young man
      whom we all ruined, was present—I mean Richard Markham."  
  "Yes—to be sure. But what of that?" demanded Chichester.  
  "Why—I gave him a paper, drawed up and signed by myself,—plain William Pocock, and none of
      your aristocratic Talbots."  
  "And that paper?" said the baronet, anxiously.  
  "Contained a complete confession of the whole business that brought him into trouble,"
      continued Pocock. "But he pledged himself not to use it to my prejudice; and that's the reason
      why you never heard of it in a legal way. On that same occasion he put a fifty-pound note into
      my hand, saying, '  Accept this as a token of my gratitude and a proof of my forgiveness;
       and endeavour to enter an honest path. Should you ever require a friend, do not hesitate to
       apply to me.  '—Those was his words; and they made a deep impression on me. Yes—gentlemen,
      and I   did   enter an honest path," continued Pocock, proudly: "and that money prospered
      me. I returned to my old business as an engraver—I left off going to public-houses—I worked
      hard, and redeemed my character with my old employers. Since that night at the   Dark
       House   all has gone well with me. I have never applied to my benefactor—because I have
      never required a friend. But I have prayed for him morning and evening—yes, gentlemen, prayed!
      I know that this may sound strange in your ears: it is nevertheless true—and I am not ashamed
      to own it. And while that faultless young man was pursuing his glorious career in a foreign
      land, there was an obscure but grateful individual in London who wept over his first reverses,
      but who laughed, and sang, and danced for joy when the newspapers brought the tidings of his
      great battles. And that individual was myself: for he was my saviour—my guardian angel—my
      benefactor! Instead of heaping curses upon me, he had spoken kind words of forgiveness and
      encouragement: instead of spurning me from his presence, he had given me money, and told me to
      look upon him as my friend! My God! such a man as that can save more souls and redeem more
      sinners than all the Bishops that ever wore lawn sleeves! I adore his very name—I worship
      him—I am as proud of his greatness as if he was my own son; and all Prince though he now is,
      did it depend upon me, he should wear a crown."  
  And as he spoke, the grateful man's voice became tremulous with emotions; and the big tears
      rolled down his cheeks.  
  There was at that moment something so commanding—something so superior about even this
      vulgar individual, that Chichester and Harborough found themselves unable to reply to him in
      that strain of levity with which they would have gladly sought to sneer away his eulogies of
      one whom they hated and feared.  
  "Yes," continued Pocock: "all I possess in the world I owe to the Prince of Montoni. I am
      now at my ease—I live in my own house, bought with my own hard-earned money:—I can even afford
      to take a little pleasure, or an occasional ramble, as I was doing just now when accident
      brought me here. And, what is more, I always have a five-pound note to assist a friend. You
      cannot wonder, then, if I worship the very name of that man who from a comparatively humble
      rank has raised himself to such a proud height by his valour and his virtues."  
  "But what has all this to do with your anxiety to see the baronet and me?" inquired
      Chichester, in a tone displaying little of its wonted assurance.  
  "A great deal," answered Pocock. "I only want an opportunity to show the Prince how grateful
      I am to him; and for that reason have I looked out for you. Great, powerful, and rich as he
      now is, the memory of the past cannot oppress him; but still it would be satisfactory to his
      noble mind to receive from both of you the same confession of his innocence that he has had
      from me."  
  "What?" cried the baronet and Chichester together, as they exchanged troubled glances.  
  to the people there what kind of acquaintances they have got in you, yet the
      honour of the Prince is uppermost with me; and I will not expose you, if you at once write out
      and sign a paper saying that   he   was innocent and   you   was the guilty cause of
      his misfortunes."  
  "Impossible!" cried Harborough.  
  "He would transport us!" ejaculated Chichester, turning deadly pale.  
  "And no great harm if he did," said the engraver, drily. "But consideration for   me  
      will prevent his punishing   you  . So if you value the friendship of your chums up
      stairs——"  
  "It would never do to be shown up before   them  !" whispered the baronet with
      desperate emphasis to Chichester, whom he drew partially aside for a moment.  
  "You will pledge yourself not to show to any one, save the Prince, the paper you require of
      us?" asked Chichester of the engraver.  
  "When once you've given me that paper, I want to know nothing more of you or your pursuits,"
      replied Pocock.  
  The two gentlemen exchanged a few hurried whispers, and then signified their assent to the
      arrangement proposed; for they found Egerton's purse too useful a means to have recourse to at
      pleasure, to allow them to risk the loss of their influence over him.  
  There were writing-materials in the room where the above conversation took place; and the
      document was speedily drawn up. Chichester wrote it, under the supervision of Pocock, who
      would not allow him to abate one single tittle of all the infamy which characterised the
      proceedings that had engendered the misfortunes of Richard Markham.  
  The paper was then duly signed, and delivered into the hands of the engraver.  
  "Now that this little business is settled," said he, "perhaps you two gentlemen will just
      allow me to observe that I have found an honest way of life much happier than a dishonest one,
      and quite as easy to pursue, if you only have the will; but whether you'll profit by this
      advice or not, is more than I can say—and certainly much more than I should like to answer
      for."  
  With these words Pocock took his departure, the dog following close at his heels.  
  Chichester and Harborough exchanged looks expressive of mingled vexation and contempt, and
      then returned to the drawing-room.  
  The vehicles were almost immediately afterwards driven round to the principal entrance; and
      the company were on the point of leaving the apartment where the festivities had been so
      unpleasantly interrupted, when an ejaculation which escaped the lips of Colonel Cholmondeley,
      who was gazing from the window, caused them all to hasten to the casements.  
  A travelling barouche was rapidly approaching the mansion!  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLVIII.   AN UNPLEASANT EXPOSURE.  
  Egerton's countenance grew pale as death when he beheld that carriage hastening through the
      Park towards the entrance of the Hall.  
  Dunstable perceived and understood his fear; and he himself experienced no little dread lest
      the approaching vehicle should contain Lady Ravensworth. But, in the next moment, this
      suspicion vanished; for it did not seem probable that her ladyship would return to a mansion
      totally unprepared to receive her.  
  The old gardener was, however, now shaking with a new alarm; and the departure was hurried
      as much as possible: but the travelling barouche had stopped near the entrance of the Hall ere
      Egerton's party had reached the bottom of the great staircase.  
  There was no male domestic in attendance upon the carriage: the postillion accordingly
      alighted from his horse, opened the door, and assisted two females, both clad in deep
      mourning, to descend.  
  Of those females, one was evidently a lady, and the other her maid.  
  The former raised her black veil, immediately upon alighting, and gazed in astonishment upon
      the three vehicles which had prevented her own from drawing-up immediately against the steps
      of the principal entrance.  
  By this time Egerton's party, followed by the old gardener, who was doing his best to hurry
      the intruders away, had reached the portico; and it was at this precise moment that the lady
      raised her veil on descending from the barouche.  
  Cholmondeley and Dunstable started; and the former exclaimed, "Lady Ravensworth!"  
  Then, recovering his wonted self-command, he advanced towards Adeline, raised his hat, and
      said, "Your ladyship is doubtless astonished to see so large a party at Ravensworth Hall; but
      if you will permit me to speak to you five words in private—"  
  "I have no secrets to discuss with Colonel Cholmondeley," interrupted Adeline, in a tone of
      freezing hauteur and yet of deep dejection: then, turning towards Mrs. Bustard, who had thrust
      herself forward to learn why the arrival of a barouche containing a lady and her female
      attendant had produced such a singular excitement amongst the gentlemen of the party, she
      said, "May I be permitted to inquire, madam, the meaning of this assembly on the day of my
      return?"  
  "If you'll tell me fust, ma'am, who you are," replied Mrs. Bustard, "may be I'll satisfy
      you."  
  "I am Lady Ravensworth," was the dignified answer.  
  "Well then, my lady, all I can say is—and which I do on the part of my nephew Albert—that
      you're quite welcome to occupy a room or two in this edifisk until such times as you can
      provide yourself with another place——"  
  "My dear aunt, allow me to explain myself to Lady Ravensworth," exclaimed Egerton, now
      stepping forward.  
  "Eh—do, my boy," cried Mrs. Bustard, whose voice was somewhat husky with champagne, and
      whose sight, from the same cause, was a little dizzy—so that she did not perceive the glance
      of mingled anger and astonishment which Adeline threw upon her while she was so politely
      offering her ladyship the use of apartments in Ravensworth Hall.  
  "Lady Ravensworth, permit me—one word, I implore you!" said Lord Dunstable, in an under
      tone, as he advanced before Egerton.  
  hope that, without farther delay, you will inform me to what circumstance I am to
      attribute the honour which my poor mansion has experienced by receiving so large a party
      during my absence."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "  Her   mansion, indeed!" said Mrs. Bustard, with an indignant toss of the head, as
      she turned towards her daughters and Mr. Tedworth Jones, all of whom remained mute spectators
      of a scene which was to them totally inexplicable.  
  "Upon me must the weight of your ladyship's anger fall," said Egerton, again advancing, and
      mustering up all his courage to afford the requisite explanation.  
  "No such a thing!" cried Mrs. Bustard. "What right has the lady to be angry? Because her
      house was put up for sale, and you bought it——"  
  "Abraham, will   you   explain this enigma?" exclaimed Adeline, turning impatiently
      towards the gardener, whom she suddenly discovered peering from behind Sir Rupert
      Harborough.  
  "Why, my lady," said the old man, twisting his paper cap over and over in his hands as he
      dragged himself irresolutely forward, "your ladyship sees these wery respectable
      folk—leastways, respectable as far as I know anythink to the contrairey,—for my maxim is, my
      lady—as I often says to my old 'ooman—says I—at such times when she says, says she——"  
  Adeline actually stamped her foot with impatience.  
  "I'm a-coming to the pint, my lady," continued the gardener, now completely crushing the
      paper cap in his hand; "and in doing that, my lady, I must ax your ladyship's pardon—'cos I'm
      a poor simple old man which can't boast of much edication—leastways, as I says to my old
      'ooman——"  
  "This is insupportable!" cried Adeline. "In one word, did you not receive my letter stating
      that it was my intention to return to the Hall this week?"  
  "No, my lady—no such a letter ever come," answered the gardener.  
  "But you can perhaps inform me in two words how these ladies and gentlemen happened to
      honour my house with their presence?" said Adeline, speaking in a severe tone.  
  "no such a thing! It's my nephew's—he bought it—and he is here to tell you
      so!"  
  Thus speaking, she thrust Egerton forward.  
  "My dear aunt," said the young man, tears starting into his eyes, "I have deceived you! I am
      sorry for the cheat which I have practised upon you: but the truth is——"  
  "Don't tell me no more!" cried Mrs. Bustard. "I see it all. It's a hoax—a shameful hoax! And
      I shouldn't wonder if your Lord and your Baronet and your Honourables are all as Brummagem as
      your title to this edifisk. Come, Tedworth—come, gals: let's get back to the Pavement. This is
      no place for us."  
  And having thus expressed herself, Mrs. Bustard bounced down the steps and clambered like an
      irritated elephant into the glass-coach, followed by her five daughters. Mr. Jones then
      mounted to the dickey; the seedy coachman whipped the horses; and the crazy old vehicle
      rattled away.  
  Lady Ravensworth, attended by her maid, passed into the mansion without bestowing any
      farther notice on the gentlemen who still lingered upon the steps; and when she had thus
      disappeared, they hastened to take their departure for London, Egerton in a state of mind
      enviable only by a man about to be hanged.  
  For nearly two years had Adeline been a voluntary exile from her native land; and, in the
      seclusion of a charming villa in the south of France, she had devoted herself to the care of
      her child, whom the gipsy Morcar had so miraculously saved from death. She also endeavoured,
      by the exercise of charity and a constant attention to her devotions, to atone for the crimes
      which she had committed; but, though deeply penitent, her soul could not stifle the pangs of
      an intense remorse. And thus had many—many sleepless nights—often rendered terrible by the
      shade of the murdered Lydia—dimmed the fires of Adeline's eyes, and given to her cheeks the
      pallor of marble!  
  Her only solace was her child, on whom she doated with all the affection which can be
      bestowed by a heart that has nothing else to love—nothing else to render existence even
      tolerable. The more she alienated her mind from the frivolities and levities which had
      occupied her when she was a brilliant star in the galaxy of London fashion,—and the more
      successfully she wrestled with those burning passions which had rendered her the willing
      victim of the seducer, even in her girlhood,—so much the more profound became her affection
      for the infant Ferdinand. But that consolation was not to endure. Five months before her
      return to England the boy was snatched away from her,—suddenly snatched away by the rude hand
      of Fever, as the rose-bud is cropped by the bleak north wind.  
  Then how desolate became the heart of Adeline! She felt that her punishment had not yet
      ceased on earth.  
  No longer were there charms for her in a foreign land; and she panted to return to her
      native clime. For some weeks she wrestled against this inclination; but having imparted her
      desire to Eliza Sydney, with whom she regularly corresponded, a letter from that excellent
      lady set her mind at ease as to the expediency of revisiting England. Eliza offered no
      argument against the project; and Lady Ravensworth accordingly hastened her preparations for a
      departure from the south of France.  
  The faithful Quentin was still in her service; but the English lady's-maid, who had followed
      Adeline to the Continent, had married and settled in France. A French woman, therefore,
      supplied her place; and it was this foreign servant who accompanied Lady Ravensworth on her
      return to the Hall.  
  Adeline's desire was to retrace her way in privacy to the mansion which, according to the
      conditions of her late husband's will, had become her own—for there was now no male heir to
      the proud title and broad lands of Ravensworth: and her intention was to dwell in the
      strictest retirement at the mansion. She had written to the gardener to command him to prepare
      for her return; but, by some accident, the letter had miscarried—and hence the old man's
      ignorance of the approach of his mistress.  
  On her arrival, by the Calais steam-packet, at London Bridge, Adeline had left Quentin to
      clear the baggage at the Custom-House, and had proceeded direct to the Hall. The incidents
      which immediately followed her arrival are already known to the reader.  
  It may, however, appear strange that Adeline should come back to a dwelling where she had
      suffered so much, and which could not fail to recall to her with renewed force the black crime
      which lay so heavily upon her conscience. But her mind was in that morbid state which is so
      well calculated to engender idiosyncratic ideas; and she believed that the very fact of her
      return to the scene of her enormity would prove a penance most salutary to her soul. Such
      purely Roman Catholic sentiments are frequently found exercising a deep influence over minds
      which contrition for great crimes has disposed to superstitious tendencies.  
  There were also considerations of a more worldly nature which to some extent urged Lady
      Ravensworth to return to the Hall. She loathed the idea of dwelling amidst the noise, the din,
      and the crowds of the metropolis: she craved for the retirement of the country. Whither, then,
      could she repair save to the mansion which was her own? what excuse could she offer to those
      who knew her, for settling in any other part of the suburbs of London?—for   near  ,
      though not   in  , the capital had she resolved to dwell, in order to be enabled to see
      her parents occasionally, and Eliza Sydney frequently.  
  In addition to all the influences, moral and worldly, now enumerated, there was another
      which had confirmed Adeline in the idea of returning to the Hall. But this was a secret
      influence for which she could not account,—an influence that ever interposed amidst her
      waverings, to settle them in favour of the project,—one of those influences to which even the
      strongest minds are frequently subject, and for the existence of which they can give no
      satisfactory reason. Such an influence as this the Turk would denominate the irresistible
      current of Destiny; but the pious Christian believes it to be the secret and all-powerful will
      of heaven.  
  Let us, however, proceed with our narrative.  
  The intruders had departed; and Lady Ravensworth was as it were alone in that vast mansion
      which had so many sad and gloomy memorials for her!  
  the large and lonely rooms in which the silence of death seemed to reign.  
  She looked at the pictures which hung upon the walls; and then it struck her that some
      change had taken place in those rooms, each feature of which she remembered well. The more
      earnestly she gazed about her, the firmer became her conviction that every thing was not as
      she had left it. At length she perceived that three or four of the most valuable pictures had
      disappeared: a costly time-piece, too, was missing from the mantel of one apartment: several
      ornaments were wanting in another.  
  Thinking that these objects might have been shifted from their usual places, she entered
      another suite of rooms; and there, instead of finding the things which were lost from the
      first, she perceived more vacancies amongst the pictures and the ornaments.  
  The conduct of the old gardener in allowing a party of persons to use the mansion, the care
      of which had been entrusted to him, recurred more forcibly than at first to her mind: and what
      had hitherto appeared a comparatively venial fault, now assumed a complexion, when coupled
      with the disappearance of the pictures and ornaments above-mentioned, which naturally created
      in her mind alarming suspicions of his honesty.  
  She rang the bell: her French servant responded to the summons; and Adeline desired that the
      gardener might be immediately sent into her presence.  
  The maid withdrew, and conveyed by signs the order which she had received; for she was
      unable to speak a single word of English.  
  The old man, who was deliberating with his wife upon the best means of breaking to Lady
      Ravensworth the unpleasant fact of there being a putrid corpse in the mansion at that very
      moment, received the command with a ludicrous expression of fear and vexation on his
      countenance; and he repaired to the presence of his mistress in a state of mind about as
      agreeable as if he were on his road to an   auto-da-fé  .  
  "Abraham," said Lady Adeline, "there are certain circumstances which render my return to
      this house far from pleasant. Almost heart-broken by the loss of that dear, dear child who
      constituted my only earthly joy, I come back to my native land with the hope of at least
      finding tranquillity and peace in the retirement of Ravensworth Hall. But scarcely do I alight
      from my carriage, when I encounter upon the very threshold of my home a party of revellers
      whom your imprudence permitted to celebrate their orgies within these walls. This fault I was
      inclined to pardon: but when, upon the first superficial glance around the principal
      apartments, I perceive that many valuable articles have disappeared——"  
  "Disappeared, my lady!" cried the old man, starting in a manner rather indicative of
      surprise than of guilt.  
  "Yes, Abraham," returned Lady Ravensworth, severely: "pictures—ornaments—time-pieces—China
      bowls—and several objects of less value are missing from these apartments. Have you removed
      them elsewhere?"  
  "Oh! my lady," cried the gardener, "you can't think that I would rob you! As God is my
      judge, neither me nor my wife has touched a single thing in the place—leastways, unless it was
      to dust and clean 'em. The doors has been kept locked——"  
  "But if you have been in the habit of allowing strangers the use of these apartments——"  
  "No, my lady—this was the fust and the last time that me and my old 'ooman did such a
      thing," exclaimed the, gardener, emphatically: "and we didn't know we was a-doing anythink so
      wery wrong—seeing your ladyship wasn't here."  
  "And you have not even observed that certain pictures and ornaments had disappeared?"
      inquired Adeline, who knew not what to conjecture—for the manner and words of the old man were
      stamped with honesty.  
  "Never, my lady—we never noticed it," was the answer. "For my part, I seldom come into these
      rooms at all: but my old 'ooman dusted 'em out reglar once a month or so; and if she'd missed
      anythink I should have knowed of it in a moment. But——"  
  "But what, Abraham?" said Lady Ravensworth, in a kinder tone.  
  "There's one circumstance that has troubled me and my wife more than once—or twice—or a
      dozen times, my lady: and yet——"  
  "Speak candidly. Why do you hesitate?"  
  The old man cast a hurried glance around,—for it was now growing dusk,—and, sinking his
      voice to a whisper, he said, "The Hall is troubled, my lady."  
  "What do you mean?" exclaimed Adeline, starting from her seat, as if those words had
      electrified her. "Explain yourself, old man—speak!"  
  "Ah! my lady—there's no doubt on it!" returned Abraham, again looking suspiciously around.
      "Mr. Vernon can't rest in his grave—his sperret walks——"  
  "A truce to this idle folly!" cried Lady Ravensworth, her tone once more becoming
      severe.  
  Had the old man assured her that he had seen the spirit of Lydia Hutchinson, she would have
      been suddenly overwhelmed by a feeling of tremendous awe; and she would have sunk beneath the
      appalling weight of an announcement the truth of which she would not have dared to question.
      This influence, however, could only have been exercised over her by the superstition
      associated with her own dread crime; and when, contrary to her expectation, but greatly to her
      relief—the phantom she so much dreaded was not the one of which the old man spoke, she
      immediately rejected his tale as unworthy of credit.  
  "A truce to this idle folly!" she cried; "and prepare yourself to give the explanations
      which my solicitor may require at your hands to-morrow. Leave me."  
  "I hope your ladyship——"  
  "Leave me, I say; and send my maid up with lights."  
  "Yes, my lady—certainly I will," returned the old man, without moving from the place where
      he stood: "but before I go—I must acquaint your ladyship—leastways, I must in dooty state
      that—though it ain't a wery pleasant thing—still it wasn't my fault—as my old 'ooman can prove
      to your ladyship——"  
  doubt by the confusion of your manner—you must satisfy my legal adviser upon that
      head. Fear not, however, that I will seek to punish an old man who cannot have many years to
      remain in this world: no—I am not vindictive—my own sufferings," she added, with a profound
      sigh, "have taught me to be merciful to others. But I do not desire to prolong this
      conversation now. Leave me, I repeat—leave me!"  
  The gardener endeavoured to obtain a farther hearing—for he was most anxious to communicate
      the fact of the dead body being in the house; but Adeline waved her hand in a manner so
      authoritative, that the poor old man had no alternative than to obey.  
  He accordingly left the room, quite bewildered by the injurious suspicions which had arisen
      in the mind of his mistress against his honesty; for he had spoken naught save the plain truth
      when he declared that the disappearance of the pictures and ornaments had never been observed
      by either himself or his wife.  
  The French maid carried lights up to the drawing-room, and received from Lady Ravensworth
      instructions to prepare the bed-chamber situate in the northern extremity of the building:
      this, in fact, was the same apartment that Adeline had occupied after she had ceased to
      inhabit her boudoir, and during the interval between the murder of Lydia Hutchinson and the
      suicide of Gilbert Vernon.  
  The lady's-maid retired to fulfil her mistress's directions; and Adeline was left once more
      alone.  
  The solemn silence that prevailed throughout the mansion added to the depression of her
      spirits; and she could not combat against a vague presentiment of approaching evil, which
      gradually acquired a greater influence over her.  
  It is well known that many animals have an instinctive knowledge of impending danger, even
      while its source remains as yet unseen. The noble steed that bears the traveller through the
      forest, snuffs the air, paws the ground, and swerves uneasily from his path, when in the
      vicinity of the lair where the lion lies concealed: the little bird flutters wildly above the
      thicket which hides the lurking snake;—and the buffalo trembles through every limb as he
      approaches the tree from the dense foliage of which, high over head, the terrible anaconda is
      prepared to spring.  
  Is such a feeling as this never known to human beings?  
  We believe that it is.  
  And certain was it that Adeline became the prey of a similar influence—vague, sinister, and
      undefined,—as she sate in the loneliness of the large apartment around which her glances
      wandered with an uneasiness that did not diminish.  
  She rose from her seat and walked to the window: it was now quite dark—the sky was
      overclouded—and neither moon nor stars appeared.  
  "I could wish that the evening were less gloomy," she said to herself. "And how long Quentin
      seems to be!"  
  Then she remembered that he had many purchases to make; for it was not expected that the
      gardener would have provided the requisite stock of provisions and necessaries, even if he had
      received the letter announcing Lady Ravensworth's intended return.  
  "Still I wish he would come!" said Adeline. "He is a faithful servant—and I should feel more
      secure were he near me. What   can   be this dreadful depression of spirits which I
      experience? Alas! happiness and I have long been strangers to each other: but never—never have
      I felt as I do to-night!"  
  She started: it struck her that the handle of the folding doors communicating with the next
      room was agitated.  
  Yes: it was no delusion—some one was about to enter.  
  Yielding to fears which were the more intense because they were altogether inexplicable, she
      leant against the wall for support—her eyes fixed, under the influence of a species of
      fascination, upon the doors at the farther extremity of the room.  
  Slowly did one of those folding-doors open; and for an instant, in the wild turmoil of her
      feelings, the unhappy woman half expected to behold the spectre of Lydia Hutchinson appear
      before her.  
  But—no: it was a man who entered.  
  The lights flared with the draught created by the opening of that door; and for a few
      moments Adeline could only perceive the dark form, without being able to distinguish his
      features.  
  Not long, however, did this painful uncertainty last; for as the intruder advanced towards
      the almost fainting lady, the light suddenly shone full upon his countenance;—and, with
      feelings of indescribable horror, she once more found herself in the presence of the
      Resurrection Man.  
  
  CHAPTER CCXLIX.   THE RESURRECTION MAN'S LAST FEAT AT RAVENSWORTH HALL.  
  "Holy God protect me!" shrieked Adeline, staggering to a sofa, on which she fell.  
  But her senses did not leave her: a profound conviction of the terrible position in which
      she was again placed, suddenly nerved her with a courage and a strength that astonished even
      herself; and, starting from the sofa, she confronted the Resurrection Man, saying, "What do
      you here?"  
  "That's my business," answered Tidkins, gruffly. "You see that I am here:—here I have been
      for a long time—and here I shall remain as much longer as it suits my purpose. That is," he
      added, with a significant leer, "unless you make it worth my while to take myself off."  
  "Detestable extortioner!" ejaculated Adeline: "am I never to know peace again?"  
  "Well—now that's   your   business, my lady," replied the Resurrection Man. "The fact
      is, I find this place so much to my liking, and it answers my views as well as my safety so
      well, that I am in no hurry to quit it. You may look as black as you please: but you ought to
      know by this time that Tony Tidkins is not the man to be frightened by a lady's frown."  
  "The law will protect me," said Adeline, now labouring under the most painful
      excitement.  
  "Yes—and punish you too," added the Resurrection Man, coolly.  
  than be at the mercy of your extortions,—I will seek redress at the hands of
      justice—aye, even though I draw down its vengeance upon my own head at the same time!"  
  And she flew towards the bell-pull.  
  But the Resurrection Man caught her ere her hand could reach the rope; and dragging her
      back, he pushed her brutally upon the sofa. Then, drawing a pistol from his pocket, he said in
      a terribly ominous tone, "If you attempt that dodge again, I'll shoot you through the head as
      sure as you're now a living woman."  
  Adeline contemplated him with eyes expressive of the wildest alarm.  
  "You see that it's no use to play tricks with me, young lady," continued the Resurrection
      Man, as he replaced the pistol in his pocket.  
  "What is it that you require?" asked Adeline, in a faint and supplicating tone: "what can I
      do to induce you to depart and never molest me more? Oh! have mercy upon me, I implore
      you—have mercy upon me! I have no friends to protect me: I am widowed and childless. My poor
      boy has been snatched from me—my sole earthly solace is gone! But why do you persecute me
      thus? Have I ever injured you? If you hate me—if you look upon me as an enemy, kill me
      outright:—do not—do not take my life by inches. Your presence is slow torture!"  
  "Will you listen to reason?" demanded Tidkins: "can you speak calmly for a few minutes?"  
  "I will—I can," returned Adeline, shuddering dreadfully as the Resurrection Man drew nearer
      to her.  
  "Well, then—if you keep your word, our business will soon be brought to an end," he said,
      planting himself coolly in a chair opposite to her. "You must know that I've been living in
      this house almost ever since you left it."  
  "Living here!" cried Adeline, indignation mastering a considerable portion of her
      terror.  
  "Yes—living here as snug as a bug in a rug," returned Tidkins, chuckling as if he considered
      the fact to be an excellent joke. "The truth is I had certain reasons of my own for being
      either in or near London: and I looked about for a safe place. Happening to pass this way a
      few weeks after that business about Vernon, you know——"  
  "Proceed—proceed!" said Adeline, impatiently.  
  "I'm in no hurry," replied Tidkins.  
  "But my servant may come—Quentin will be here shortly—I expect him every minute——"  
  "He won't hurt me, my lady," said Tidkins, calmly. "If he attempted to lay a hand on me, I'd
      shoot him on the spot. However, I will go on quicker—since you wish it. Well, as I was saying,
      I passed by this way and saw the house all shut up. Inquiries at the village down yonder let
      me know that you was gone, and that there was no one but an old man and his wife about the
      premises. Nothing could suit me better: I resolved to take up my quarters here directly;—and I
      pitched upon the very room where Vernon threw himself out of the window. One day I heard the
      two old people talking in the next apartment, which they were dusting out; and I found, by
      their discourse, that they believed in ghosts. That was a glorious discovery for me: I soon
      saw that certain little devices which I practised made them think that Vernon's spirit haunted
      the place—and so I boldly opened the shutters and made myself comfortable, when I took it into
      my head. They weren't at the house, it seems, when I was staying here two years ago; and so
      they didn't know who I really was. Thus, when they saw me standing in the balcony—which I
      often did just to amuse myself by frightening them a little—they firmly believed it was
      Gilbert Vernon's spirit that haunted the place. Lord! how I have laughed sometimes at the poor
      old souls!"  
  "It is you, then," cried Adeline, a sudden idea striking her, "who have been plundering the
      Hall during my absence?"  
  "Well—you may call it by that name, if you like," said Tidkins, with the most provoking
      calmness. "I don't hesitate to admit that I have now and then walked off with a small
      picture—or a time-piece—or a mantel ornament—or what not—just to raise supplies for the time
      being. But you ought to be very much obliged to me that I've left any thing at all in the
      whole place. Such forbearance isn't quite in keeping with my usual disposition."  
  "Villain! this to me—and said so coolly!" cried Lady Ravensworth, again starting from her
      seat.  
  "Pray keep where you are, ma'am," observed Tidkins, pushing her back again upon the sofa;
      "you promised to listen to reason."  
  "Reason!" exclaimed Adeline: "and do you call it reason when I am compelled to hear the
      narrative of your villanies—the history of your depredations on my property?"  
  "You knew what I was when you sought my acquaintance," said the Resurrection Man; "and after
      all, I've only just been taking the little liberties which one friend may use with
      another."  
  "Friend!" repeated Adeline, in a tone expressive of deep disgust, as she retreated as far
      back upon the sofa as possible.  
  "Come—we're only wasting time by all this disputing," said the Resurrection Man. "The whole
      thing lies in a nut-shell. You've come home again—and you want to enjoy undisputed possession
      of your own house. Well—that is reasonable enough. But, by so doing, you turn me out of doors;
      and I don't exactly know where I shall find a crib so safe and convenient as this. I must have
      an indemnity, then: and that is also reasonable on my part."  
  "Until you told me that you had robbed the house," exclaimed Adeline, in a tone of almost
      ungovernable indignation,—such as she had not experienced for a long, long time,—"I was
      prepared to purchase your departure with a sum of money: but now,—now that I have the most
      convincing proofs of your utter profligacy—even if such proofs were wanting,—now that I see
      the folly of reposing the slightest trust in one who studies nothing save his own wants and
      interests,—I will think of a compromise no longer."  
  "You will repent your obstinacy," said Tidkins. "Remember how you have dared me on a former
      occasion, and how I reduced you to submission."  
  to existence? Nothing—unless it be the enjoyment of seclusion and tranquillity.
      These are menaced by your persecutions: and I will put an end to this intolerable tyranny—or
      perish in the attempt. That is my decision. Let us be at open war, if you will: and 'tis thus
      I commence hostilities!"  
  Rapid as thought, she darted towards the bell-rope: but Tidkins, who had divined her
      intention, intercepted her as before.  
  Placing his iron hand on the nape of her neck, he thrust her violently back upon the sofa:
      then, ere he withdrew his hold, he said in a low, hoarse, and ferocious tone, "This is the
      last time I will be trifled with. By Satan! young woman, I'll strangle you, if this game
      continues—just as I strangled your Lydia Hutchinson!"  
  And pushing her with contemptuous rudeness from him, he released her from his grasp.  
  For a few moments Adeline's breath came with so much difficulty, and her bosom heaved so
      convulsively, that the Resurrection Man feared he had gone too far, and had done her some
      grievous injury: but when he saw her recover from the semi-strangulation and the dreadful
      alarm which she had experienced in consequence of his treatment, his eyes glistened with
      ferocious satisfaction.  
  "Let us make a long business short," he said, in a coarse and imperious tone. "If I told you
      just now that I had helped myself to a few of the things in this house, it was only to
      convince you that I am not likely to stick at trifles in respect to you or yours. You have
      money—and I want some. Give me my price—and you shall never see me again."  
  "No—you may murder me if you will," cried Adeline, hysterically: "but I will not submit to
      your tyranny any more. Oh! you are a terrible man—and I would sooner die than live in the
      constant terror of your persecution!"  
  "Foolish woman, give up this screeching—or, by hell! I'll settle you, and then help myself
      to all I want," cried Tidkins, ferociously.  
  And at the same moment Adeline, whose face was buried in her hands, felt his iron grasp
      again upon the nape of her neck.  
  She started up with a half-stifled scream, and endeavoured to reach the bell-rope a third
      time. But once more was she anticipated in her design; and the Resurrection Man now held her
      firmly round the waist by his left arm.  
  Then drawing forth the pistol with his right hand, he placed the muzzle against Adeline's
      marble forehead.  
  "I must put an end to this nonsense at once," he said, in a ferocious tone. "There is
      something now in the house, proud and obstinate woman as you are—that will make you fall on
      your knees and beseech me to remove it from your sight. But we will try that test: and
      remember, this pistol that touches your forehead is loaded. Attempt to raise an alarm—and I
      blow your brains out."  
  "Release me—let me go—I implore you!" murmured Adeline, who experienced greater loathing at
      that contiguity with the Resurrection Man, than fear at the weapon which menaced her with
      instantaneous death.  
  "No—you shall come," returned Tidkins, brutally: "I am sick of this reasoning, and must
      bring you to the point at once."  
  "Let me go—and I swear to follow whither you may choose to lead," said Adeline.  
  "Well—now I release you on that condition," was the reply: and the horrible man withdrew his
      arm and the pistol simultaneously.  
  But still keeping the weapon levelled at the wretched lady, and taking a candle in his left
      hand, he made a sign for her to accompany him.  
  She was now reduced to that state of physical nervousness and mental bewilderment, that she
      obeyed mechanically, without attempting to remonstrate—without even remembering to ask whither
      they were going.  
  They left the room, and proceeded along the passage towards the southern extremity of the
      building,—Adeline walking on one side of the corridor, and Tidkins on the other—the latter
      still keeping the pistol levelled to over-awe the miserable woman.  
  But she saw it not: she went on, because she mechanically obeyed one in whose power she felt
      herself to be, and whose loathsome contiguity she trembled to dare again.  
  At length they stopped at a door: and then Adeline's memory seemed to recover all its
      powers—her ideas instantly appeared to concentrate themselves in one focus.  
  "Oh! no—not here! not here!" she said, with a cold shudder, as she suddenly awoke as it were
      from a confused dream, and recognised the door of her boudoir—  the   boudoir!  
  "Then give me a thousand pounds—and I will leave the house this minute," returned
      Tidkins.  
  "No—you shall kill me first!" ejaculated Adeline, again recovering courage and strength, as
      if by instinct she knew herself to be standing upon some fearful precipice. "I will resist you
      to the death: you have driven me to desperation!"  
  And, springing towards the Resurrection Man, she made a snatch at the pistol which he held
      in his hand.  
  But, eluding her attack, he thrust the weapon into his pocket: then, clasping her with iron
      vigour in his right arm, and still retaining the light in his left hand, he burst open the
      door of the boudoir with his foot.  
  Adeline uttered a faint scream, as he dragged her into the room, the door of which he closed
      violently behind him.  
  Then, holding the light in such a manner that its beams fell upon the floor, and withdrawing
      his arm from Adeline's waist, he exclaimed in a tone of ferocious triumph, "Behold the remains
      of the murdered Lydia Hutchinson!"  
  Lady Ravensworth threw one horrified glance upon the putrid corpse; and uttering a terrific
      scream expressive of the most intense agony, she fell flat upon the floor—her face touching
      the feet of the dead body.  
  Tidkins raised her: but the blood gushed out of her mouth.  
  "Perdition! I have gone too far," cried the Resurrection Man. "She is dead—and I have done
      as good as cut my own throat!"  
  It was indeed true: Adeline had burst a blood-vessel, and died upon the spot.  
  Tidkins let her fall heavily upon the floor, and throwing down the candle, fled from the
      mansion, reckless whether the light were extinguished or not.  
  to the Hall, in a hackney-coach containing, besides the baggage which he had
      cleared at the Custom-House, several hampers filled with the purchases he had been making in
      the City.  
  As he was thus proceeding through the park, he suddenly observed a strong and flickering
      light appearing through the windows at the southern extremity of the building; and in a few
      moments the whole of that part of the Hall was enveloped in flames.  
  Leaping from the coach, which, being heavily laden, dragged slowly along, the valet rushed
      to the mansion, where the presence of the fire had already alarmed the gardener and his wife,
      and the French servant.  
  But of what avail were their poor exertions against the fury of the devouring element?  
  A search was immediately instituted for Lady Ravensworth: but she was not to be found in
      either of the drawing-rooms. Nor was she in any of the chambers in the northern part of the
      building; and it was impossible to enter the southern wing, which seemed to be one vast body
      of flame.  
  The domestics, finding their search to be useless, were compelled to form the dreadful
      conclusion that their mistress had perished in the conflagration.  
  For six hours did the fire rage with appalling fury; and though the inhabitants of the
      adjacent village and the immediate neighbourhood flocked to the scene of desolation and
      rendered all the assistance in their power, the splendid mansion was reduced to a heap of
      ruins.  
  
  CHAPTER CCL.   EGERTON'S LAST DINNER PARTY.  
  We have already stated that Egerton was deeply affected by the result of the imposture which
      he had practised upon his relations. During the drive back to London, his four
      friends—Dunstable, Cholmondeley, Harborough, and Chichester—vainly endeavoured to rally him:
      he was silent and thoughtful, and replied only in monosyllables.  
  On their arrival at Stratton Street, Egerton took leave of his friends at the door without
      inviting them to enter; but they were not so easily disposed of. They urged him to accompany
      them to some place of amusement: he remained inaccessible to their solicitations, and firmly
      declared his intention of passing the remainder of the evening alone.  
  They were at length compelled to leave him—consoling themselves with the hope that he would
      "sleep off his melancholy humour," and rise in the morning as pliant and ductile in their
      hands as ever.  
  The four gentlemen had not long departed, when Major Anderson called at the house; and
      having represented to the servant that his object was an affair of some importance, he was
      admitted into the drawing-room where Egerton was lying upon the sofa.  
  "At length I find you alone, Mr. Egerton," said the Major. "I have called every evening for
      the last few days, and have never until now been fortunate enough to learn that you were at
      home."  
  "To what am I to attribute the honour of this visit?" asked the young man, whom it struck
      that he had seen the Major before—but when or where he could not remember.  
  "Pardon me if, ere I reply to that question, I pause to observe that you survey me with some
      attention," said Anderson; "and I can divine what is passing in your mind. You think that my
      features are not altogether unknown to you? I believe this to be the case—for you have seen me
      before. Indeed I should have begun by thanking you—most gratefully thanking you for that
      generous intention on your part which was interrupted at the door of the St. James's
      Club-House——"  
  "Ah! I recollect!" cried Egerton, starting up from his reclining position. "But——"  
  "Again I can read what is passing in your mind," observed the Major, with a smile; "and I
      can appreciate the delicacy which made you thus stop short. You notice the change that has
      taken place in my appearance? Yes—my circumstances are indeed altered; and from a wandering
      mendicant, I have become a gentleman once more. But that change has been effected by the very
      individual whose interposition on that night to which I have just now alluded, prevented you
      from exercising your intended benevolence towards me."  
  "And that individual was the Prince of Montoni," said Egerton.  
  "Oh! then you know him by sight——"  
  "I knew him not, otherwise than by name, until that evening," interrupted Egerton; "and it
      was from Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr. Chichester that I learnt who the stranger was."  
  "Ah! his Highness has good cause to remember them also!" cried Anderson, to whom the Prince
      had related his entire history a day or two previously.  
  "Indeed," exclaimed Egerton, "I now recollect that they seemed alarmed at his presence, and
      mentioned his name with trepidation."  
  "Well might they do so!" said the Major, indignantly. "But the Prince himself will explain
      to you those particulars to which I allude."  
  "The Prince—explain to me!" cried Egerton.  
  "Yes: my object in calling upon you is to request that you will either visit the Prince as
      soon as convenient, or appoint a day and an hour when his Highness may visit you."  
  "Oh! I should be indeed joyful to form the acquaintance of that illustrious hero of whom
      every Englishman must feel proud!" exclaimed Egerton, with the enthusiasm that was natural to
      him. "Valour, integrity, and the most unbounded humanity are associated with the name of
      Richard Markham. But upon what business can the Prince be desirous to honour me with his
      acquaintance?"  
  "  That   his Highness will himself explain," was the reply. "What hour will you
      appoint for to-morrow to wait upon the Prince at his own residence?"  
  "I will be there punctually at mid-day," answered Egerton.  
  "And in the meantime," said Major Anderson, after a moment's hesitation, "it will be as well
      if you do not mention to those persons with whom you are intimate, the appointment which you
      have made."  
  "I understand you, sir," rejoined Egerton: "it shall be as you suggest."  
  experienced some degree of interest in his behalf.  
  That suspicion was engendered by the known philanthropy and anxiety to do good which
      characterised Markham; by the allusion made by Anderson to certain explanations which the
      Prince intended to give relative to Harborough and Chichester; and also by the injunction of
      secrecy in respect to the appointment that had been made.  
  Well knowing that his four friends would not fail to visit him early next day,—and
      determined that they should not interfere with his visit to one whose acquaintance he so
      ardently desired to form,—Egerton repaired to an hotel, where he passed the night.  
  On the following morning he was greatly surprised, and to some extent shocked, to read in
      the newspaper the tidings of the fearful conflagration which had not only destroyed
      Ravensworth Hall, but in which the lady who owned the mansion had herself perished.  
  "And there likewise is entombed the mystery of the dead body!" said Egerton, as he laid
      aside the paper.  
  His toilette was performed with great care; and, punctual to the moment, the young man
      knocked at the door of Markham Place.  
  He was conducted into an elegantly furnished apartment, where the Prince advanced to receive
      him in a most kind and affable manner.  
  "You will perhaps imagine that I have taken a very great liberty with you, Mr. Egerton,"
      said Richard, "in requesting you to call upon me in this manner; but when you are made
      acquainted with my motives in seeking the present interview, you will give me credit for the
      most sincere disinterestedness. In a word, I consider it to be my duty to warn you against at
      least two of those persons who call themselves your friends."  
  "My lord, I was not unprepared for such an announcement," said Egerton, in a deferential
      manner.  
  "Then is my task the more easy," exclaimed Richard. "I allude to Sir Rupert Harborough and
      Mr. Chichester, the latter of whom assumes the distinction of   Honourable  ."  
  "And is he not of noble birth, my lord?" inquired Egerton.  
  "He is the son of a tradesman," answered Markham. "But that is no disgrace in my estimation:
      far from it! The industrious classes are the pillars of England's greatness; and I for one
      would rather walk arm-in-arm along the most fashionable thoroughfare with the honest mechanic
      or upright shopkeeper, than boast of intimacy even with a King who is unworthy of esteem and
      respect."  
  Egerton surveyed with unfeigned admiration the individual from whose lips these noble
      sentiments emanated—sentiments the more noble, inasmuch as they were expressed by one whose
      rank was so exalted, and who stood so high above his fellow-men.  
  "Yes," continued Markham, "your friend Mr. Chichester is one of those impostors who assume
      title and distinction as well to aid their nefarious courses as to gratify their own
      grovelling pride. I do not speak with malignity of that man—although I once suffered so much
      through him: for were he to seek my forgiveness, heaven knows how readily it would be
      accorded. Neither is it to gratify any mean sentiment of revenge that I now warn you against
      these two individuals. My present conduct is dictated by a sense of duty, and by an ardent
      desire to save a young and confiding young man, as I believe you to be, from the snares of
      unprincipled adventurers."  
  "Oh! now a light breaks in upon me," exclaimed Egerton; "and I recognise in the actions of
      those whom I lately deemed my friends, all the designing intrigues to which your Highness
      alludes! Fool that I was to be thus deceived!"  
  "Rather thank heaven that the means of redemption have arrived ere it be too late," said the
      Prince, impressively; "for I can scarcely believe, from all I have heard concerning you, that
      your affairs are in a state of ruin which admits of no hope."  
  "Your Highness argues truly," exclaimed Egerton: "I have yet sufficient resources remaining
      to furnish me with the means of an honourable livelihood."  
  "Then you need scarcely regret the amount you have paid for the purchase of experience,"
      said the Prince. "But allow me to place in your hands proofs of the iniquity of Sir Rupert
      Harborough and his friend. Behold these two documents! They contain the narrative of as foul a
      scheme of turpitude as ever called the misdirected vengeance of the law upon an innocent
      victim. The first of these papers is the confession of an engraver whom Harborough and
      Chichester made the instrument of that project which at one time covered my name with so dark
      a cloud. You seem astonished at what I say? Oh! then you are ignorant of that episode in my
      chequered life."  
  "Never have I heard rumour busy with your lordship's name, save to its honour and glory,"
      observed Egerton, in a tone of convincing sincerity.  
  "Peruse these papers—they will not occupy you many minutes," returned our hero, after a
      temporary pause. "The second document, which I now hand you, only came into my possession this
      morning: it was signed yesterday afternoon, by Sir Rupert Harborough and Mr. Chichester——"  
  "Yesterday afternoon, my lord!" cried Egerton. "Those gentlemen were in my company—at a
      short distance from London——"  
  "At Ravensworth Park," said Richard, with a smile. "You see that I know all. It was indeed
      at that very mansion—which, as you are doubtless aware, was reduced to ashes during the
      night—that this confession was drawn up and signed by your two friends. The engraver, whose
      name is appended to the first of those papers, was led by accident to Ravensworth Hall; and
      there he encountered the two adventurers who had once made him their instrument—their vile
      tool! He compelled them to draw up and sign that second paper, which you hold in your hands,
      and which, through gratitude for some trifling act of kindness that I was once enabled to show
      him, he obtained by working on their fears. Scarcely an hour has elapsed since I experienced
      the satisfaction of receiving that document from him; and my delight was enhanced by the
      conviction that he is now an honest—a worthy—and a prosperous member of society."  
  friends on account of his purse; and heart-felt indeed was the gratitude which he
      expressed towards the Prince for having thus intervened to save him from utter ruin.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  But how was that gratitude increased, and how profound became the young man's horror of the
      course which he had lately been pursuing, when Richard drew a forcible and deeply touching
      picture of the usual career of the gambler,—importing into his narrative the leading incidents
      of Major Anderson's own biography, without however specifying that gentleman's name,—and
      concluding with an earnest appeal to Egerton henceforth to avoid the gaming-table, if he hoped
      to enjoy prosperity and peace.  
  "Would you rush madly into a thicket where venomous reptiles abound?" demanded the Prince:
      "would you plunge of your own accord into a forest where the most terrible wild beasts are
      prowling? would you, without a sufficient motive, leave the wholesome country and take up your
      abode in a plague-stricken city? No: and it would be an insult to your understanding—to that
      intelligence with which God has endowed you—to put such questions to you, were it not for the
      purpose of conveying a more impressive moral. For the gaming-house is the thicket where
      reptiles abound—it is the forest where wild beasts prowl, ravenous after their prey—it is the
      city of pestilence into which one hurries from the salubrious air. Pause, then—reflect, my
      young friend,—and say whether the folly of the gambler be not even as great as his
      wickedness?"  
  Egerton fell at our hero's feet: he seized the Prince's hand, and pressed it to his
      lips—covering it also with his tears.  
  "You have converted me, my lord—you have saved me!" cried the young man, retrospecting with
      unfeigned horror upon the desperate career which he had lately been pursuing: "Oh! how can I
      express my gratitude? But you may read it in those tears which I now shed—tears of contrition
      for the past, and bright hopes for the future!"  
  Richard raised the penitent from his kneeling posture, saying, "Enough! I see that you are
      sincere. And now listen to the plan which I have conceived to shame the men who have been
      preying upon you; for such punishment is their due—and it may even be salutary."  
  to Egerton; but it is not necessary to explain them at present. Suffice it to say
      that the young man willingly assented to the arrangement proposed by one on whom he naturally
      looked at his saviour; and when the scheme was fully digested, our hero conducted his new
      friend into an adjoining apartment, where luncheon was served up.  
  Egerton was then enabled to judge of the domestic happiness which prevailed in that mansion
      where virtue, love, and friendship were the presiding divinities of the place.  
  The faultless beauty of the Princess Isabella,—the splendid charms of Ellen,—and the
      retiring loveliness of Katherine, fascinated him for a time; but as the conversation developed
      the amiability of their minds and evinced the goodness of their hearts, he learnt that woman
      possesses attractions far—far more witching, more permanent, and more endearing than all the
      boons which nature ever bestowed upon their countenances or their forms!  
  Old Monroe was present; and while he looked upon our hero with all the affection which a
      fond father might bestow upon a son, the Prince on his part treated him with the respect which
      a good son manifests towards an honoured father. Between Markham, too, and Mario Bazzano the
      most sincere friendship existed: in a word, the bond which united that happy family was one
      that time could never impair.  
  Three days after the event just recorded, Albert Egerton gave a dinner-party at his lodgings
      in Stratton Street.  
  The guests were Lord Dunstable, Colonel Cholmondeley, Sir Rupert Harborough, and Mr.
      Chichester.  
  The dinner-hour was seven; and, contrary to the usual arrangements, the table was spread in
      the drawing-room, instead of the dining-room, which was behind the former, folding doors
      communicating between the two apartments.  
  Let us suppose the cloth to have been drawn, and the dessert placed upon the table.  
  The wine circulated rapidly; and never had Egerton appeared in better spirits, nor more
      affably courteous towards his friends.  
  "Well, I really began to suppose that you had determined to cut us altogether," said
      Dunstable, as he sipped his wine complacently. "For three whole days we saw nothing of
      you——"  
  "Have I not already assured you that I was compelled to pass that time with my relatives, in
      order to appease them after the exposure at Ravensworth?" exclaimed Egerton.  
  "And we have accepted the apology as a valid one," observed Chichester.  
  "Upon my honour," said the baronet, "if I had known you were doing the amiable on Finsbury
      Pavement, I should have called just to help you in your endeavours to regain the favour of
      those excellent ladies."  
  "I am afraid your reception would have been none of the best, Harborough," exclaimed Colonel
      Cholmondeley.  
  "I must confess that the old lady was terribly enraged," said Egerton; "not only against me,
      but also against you all, as she looked upon you as my accomplices in the cheat."  
  "Well, we must take some opportunity of making our peace in that quarter," observed Lord
      Dunstable. "I will send her a dozen of champagne and a Strasburg pie to-morrow, with my
      compliments. But what shall we do to pass away an hour or two?"  
  "What shall we do?" repeated Chichester. "Why, amuse ourselves—as gentlemen of rank and
      fashion are accustomed—eh, Egerton?"  
  "Oh! decidedly. I am willing to fall in with your views. You have been my tutor," he added,
      with a peculiar smile; "and the pupil will not prove rebellious."  
  "Well said, my boy!" cried Dunstable. "Have you your dice-box handy?"  
  "My rascal of a tiger has lost it," answered Egerton. "But I know that the baronet seldom
      goes abroad without the usual implements."  
  "Ah! you dog!" chuckled Sir Rupert, as if mightily amused by this sally. "You are, however,
      quite right; and I do not think that any fashionable man about town should forget to provide
      himself with the means of the most aristocratic of all innocent recreations. Upon my honour,
      that is my opinion."  
  "Just what my friend the Duke of Highgate said the other day—even to the very words,"
      exclaimed Dunstable.  
  "How singular!" observed the baronet, as he produced a box and a pair of dice.  
  "By the by, Dunstable," said Egerton, "you promised to introduce me to his Grace."  
  "So I did, my dear boy—and so I will. Let me see—I shall see the Duke on Monday, and I will
      make an appointment for him to join us at dinner somewhere."  
  "The very thing," said Egerton: "I shall be quite delighted—particularly if his Grace be one
      of your own sort."  
  "Oh! he is—to the utmost," returned Dunstable, who did not perceive a lurking irony beneath
      the tranquillity of Egerton's manner.  
  "I am glad of that," continued the young man. "If I only knew three or four more such gay,
      dashing, good-hearted fellows as you all are, I should be as contented as possible. By the
      way, Chichester, I will tell you a very odd thing."  
  "Indeed! what is it?" inquired that gentleman.  
  "Oh! nothing more than a strange coincidence. Just this:—I told you that I had been staying
      a day or two with my respected aunt on the Pavement. Well, yesterday I wandered through the
      Tower Hamlets—merely for a ramble—and without any fixed purpose: but, as I was strolling down
      Brick Lane—a horrid, low, vulgar neighbourhood——"  
  "Dreadful!" cried Chichester, sitting somewhat uneasily on his chair.  
  "Oh! terrible—filthy, degrading," continued Egerton, emphatically. "You may therefore
      conceive my surprise when I perceived the aristocratic name of   Chichester   painted in
      huge yellow letters, shaded with brown, over a shop-front in that same Brick Lane."  
  "How very odd!" ejaculated Chichester, filling himself a bumper of champagne.  
  "Yes—but those coincidences of course   do   occur," said the baronet, who, after
      eyeing his host suspiciously, saw nothing beneath his calm exterior to indicate a pointed
      object in raising the present topic.  
  continued the young man, "was that over the aristocratic name of
         Chichester   hung three dingy yellow balls."  
  "Capital! excellent!" exclaimed the gentleman whom this announcement so particularly
      touched, and who scarcely knew how to cover his confusion.  
  "Yes: I had a good laugh at the coincidence," said Egerton. "At the same time I knew very
      well that there could be nothing in common between Mr. Chichester, the pawnbroker of Brick
      Lane, and the Honourable Arthur Chichester of the fashionable world."  
  "I should hope not, indeed!" exclaimed Chichester, reassured by this observation.  
  "Come—take the box, Egerton," said Sir Rupert Harborough.  
  "Oh! willingly," replied the young man. "But we must play on credit, because I have no money
      in the house; and he who loses shall pay by cheque or note of hand."  
  "With pleasure," said the baronet.  
  The two gentlemen began to play; and Egerton lost considerably. He, however, appeared to
      submit with extraordinary patience and equanimity to his ill-luck, and continued to chatter in
      a gay and unusually jocular manner.  
  "Seven's the main. Come, Dunstable, fill your glass: the wine stands with you. By the by,
      has your rascally steward sent you up your remittances yet? You know you were complaining to
      me about him the other day."  
  "No—he is still a defaulter," returned the young nobleman, laughing.  
  "And likely to continue so, I'm afraid," added Egerton. "But where is that estate of yours,
      old fellow?"  
  "Oh! down in the country——"  
  "Yes—I dare say it is. But where?"  
  "Why—in Somersetshire, to be sure. I thought you knew   that  ," cried Dunstable, not
      altogether relishing either the queries themselves or the manner in which they were put.  
  "That makes seven hundred I owe you, Harborough," said Egerton. "Do pass the wine,
      Chichester. Five's the main. Let me see—what were we talking about? Oh! I
      recollect—Dunstable's estate. And so it's in Somersetshire? Beautiful county! What is the name
      of the estate, my dear fellow?"  
  "My own name—Dunstable Manor," was the reply; but the nobleman began to cast suspicious
      glances towards his friend.  
  "Dunstable Manor—eh? What a sweet pretty name!" ejaculated Egerton. "And yet it is very
      strange—I know Somersetshire as well as any one can know a county; but I do not recollect
      Dunstable Manor. How foolish I must be to forget such a thing as that."  
  With these words, he rose from the table and took down a large volume from the
      book-case.  
  "What are you going to do?" inquired Dunstable, now feeling particularly uneasy.  
  "Only refreshing my memory by a reference to this   Gazetteer  ," answered Egerton, as
      he deliberately turned over the pages of the book.  
  "Oh! come—none of this nonsense!" exclaimed Dunstable, snatching the volume from Egerton's
      hands. "Who ever thinks of reading before company?"  
  "It would be rude, I admit," said Egerton, recovering the volume from the other's grasp,
      "were we not such very particular and intimate friends—so intimate indeed, that we have one
      purse in common between us all five, and that purse happens to be the one which I have the
      honour to carry in my pocket."  
  "Egerton, what   is   the matter with you?" demanded Lord Dunstable, who was now
      convinced that something was wrong.  
  "Matter! nothing at all, my dear boy," answered the young man, as he continued to turn the
      leaves of the volume. "Here it is—Somersetshire—a very detailed account—not even the smallest
      farm omitted. But how is this? Why—Dunstable Manor is not here!"  
  "Not there!" cried the nobleman, blushing up to his very hair.  
  "No—indeed it is not!" rejoined Egerton. "Now really this is a great piece of negligence on
      the part of the compiler of the work; and if I were you, Dunstable, I would bring an action
      against him for damages. Because, only conceive how awkward this would make you appear before
      persons of suspicious dispositions. Well—  upon my honour  , as the baronet says—this
      coincidence is almost as extraordinary as that of the pawnbroker in Brick Lane."  
  While Egerton was thus speaking, his four friends exchanged significant glances which seemed
      to ask each other what all this could possibly mean.  
  "Yes—suspicious people would be inclined to imagine that the Dunstable estate was in the
      clouds rather than in Somersetshire," proceeded Egerton, who did not appear to notice the
      confusion of his guests. "But the world is so very ill-natured! Would you believe that there
      are persons so lamentably scandalous as to declare that our friend Chichester is no more an
         Honourable   than I am, and that he really is the son of the pawnbroker in Brick
      Lane?"  
  "The villains!" cried Chichester, starting from his seat: "who are those persons that
      dare——"  
  "Wait one moment!" exclaimed Egerton: "it is my duty as a sincere friend to tell you each
      and all what I have heard. Those same scandalous and ill-natured people exceed all bounds of
      propriety; for they actually assert that Sir Rupert Harborough has for years been known as a
      profligate adventurer——"  
  "By God, Mr. Egerton!" cried the baronet: "I——"  
  "And they affirm in quite as positive a manner," continued the young man, heedless of this
      interruption, "that you, Dunstable, and you too, Cholmondeley, are nothing more nor less than
      ruined gamesters."  
  "Egerton," exclaimed the Colonel, foaming with indignation, "this is carrying a joke too
      far."  
  "A great deal too far," added Dunstable.  
  "It really is no joke at all, my lord and gentlemen," said the young man, now speaking in a
      tone expressive of the deepest disgust: "for every word I have uttered is firmly believed by
      myself!"  
  "By you!" cried the four adventurers, speaking as it were in one breath.  
  "Yes—and by all the world," exclaimed Egerton, rising from his seat, and casting indignant
      glances upon his guests.  
  inflicted a severe chastisement on him had not assistance been at hand.  
  But the door communicating with the dining-room was suddenly thrown open, and the individual
      who now made his appearance, threw himself upon Cholmondeley, tore him away from his hold upon
      Albert Egerton, and actually hurled him to the opposite side of the apartment.  
  "The Prince of Montoni!" ejaculated Harborough, as he rushed towards the door, with
      Chichester close at his heels.  
  But the Prince hastened to intercept them; and, leaning his back against the door, he
      exclaimed, "No one passes hence, at present. Mr. Egerton, secure those dice."  
  Dunstable darted towards that part of the table where the dice lay; but Egerton had already
      obtained possession of them.  
  Richard in the meantime locked the door, and put the key in his pocket.  
  "Be he a king," cried Cholmondeley, who had caught the words uttered by the baronet, "he
      shall suffer for his conduct to me;"—and the Colonel advanced in a menacing manner towards the
      Prince.  
  "Beware, sir, how you place a finger on me!" cried Richard. "Approach another step nearer,
      and I will lay you at my feet!"  
  The Colonel muttered something to himself, and retreated towards the folding-doors
      communicating with the dining-room; but there his way was interrupted by the presence of two
      stout men in plain clothes and two of Richard's servants in handsome liveries.  
  "Let no one pass, Whittingham," said the Prince, "until our present business be
      accomplished."  
  "No, my lord," answered the old butler, who was one of the stout men in plain clothes: then,
      having given the same instructions to the two servants in livery, Whittingham exclaimed in a
      loud tone, "And mind, my men, that you on no account let them sneaking willains Scarborough
      and Axminster defect their escape!"  
  "My lord, what means this conduct on your part?" demanded Dunstable of the Prince. "By what
      authority do you detain us here as prisoners?"  
  "Yes—by what authority?" echoed Cholmondeley, again stepping forward.  
  "By that authority which gives every honest man a right to expose unprincipled adventurers
      who are leagued to plunder and rob an inexperienced youth," answered Richard, in a stern tone.
      "Mr. Egerton, give me those dice."  
  This request was immediately complied with; and the   other stout man in plain
       clothes   now stepped forward from the dining-room.  
  To the infinite dismay of Harborough and Chichester, they immediately recognised Pocock, who
      did not, however, take any notice of them: but producing a very fine saw from his pocket, he
      set to work to cut in halves one of the dice which Richard handed to him.  
  The four adventurers now turned pale as death, and exchanged glances of alarm and
      dismay.  
  "Behold, Mr. Egerton," said the Prince, after examining the die that had been sawed in
      halves, "how your false friends have been enabled to plunder you. Heaven be thanked that I am
      entirely ignorant of the disgraceful details of gamesters' frauds; but a child might
      understand for what purpose this die has been thus prepared."  
  "  Loaded  , your Highness, is the technical term, observed Pocock. "That scoundrel
      there," pointing to Chichester, "once told me all about them things, at the time I was leagued
      with him and his baronet friend."  
  "I hope your Highness will not make this affair public," said Lord Dunstable, his manner
      having changed to the most cringing meekness. "Egerton—you cannot wish to ruin me
      altogether?"  
  "Would you not have ruined me?" inquired the young man, bitterly.  
  "Oh! what a blessed day it is for me to be a high-witness of the disposure of them
      scoundrels Marlborough and Winchester!" ejaculated the old butler, rubbing his hands joyfully
      together. "Send 'em to Newgate, my lord—send 'em to Newgate—and then let 'em be disported to
      the spinal settlements, my lord!"  
  "Pray have mercy upon   me  —for the sake of my father and mother!" said Dunstable,
      whose entire manner expressed the most profound alarm. "Your Highness is known to possess a
      good heart——"  
  "It is not to me that you must address yourself," interrupted Markham, in a severe tone.
      "Appeal to this young man whom you have basely defrauded of large sums—upon whom you have been
      preying for weeks past—and whom you have tutored in the ways that lead to destruction:—appeal
      to him, I say—and not to me."  
  "I am entirely in the hands of your Highness," observed Egerton, with a grateful glance
      towards the Prince.  
  "Then we will spare these men, bad and unprincipled though they be," exclaimed Richard: "we
      will spare them—not for their own sakes, Egerton—but for yours. Were it known, through the
      medium of the details of a public prosecution, that you have been so intimately connected with
      a gang of cheats and depredators, your character would be irretrievably lost; for the world is
      not generous enough to pause and reflect that you were only a victim. Therefore, as you are
      determined to retrieve the past, it will be prudent to forego any criminal proceedings against
      those who have made you their dupe."  
  "Your Highness has spoken harshly—very harshly," said Lord Dunstable; "and yet I feel I have
      deserved all that vituperation. But this leniency with which your lordship has treated me—and
         your   forbearance, Egerton—will not have been ineffectual. I now see the fearful
      brink upon which I stood—and I shudder; for had you resolved to drag me before a tribunal of
      justice, I would have avoided that last disgrace by means of suicide."  
  The young nobleman spoke with a feeling and an evident sincerity that touched both our hero
      and Egerton; but Cholmondeley turned away in disgust from his penitent friend, and Harborough
      exchanged a contemptuous look with Chichester.  
  "Lord Dunstable," said Markham, in an impressive tone, "your conduct has been bad—very bad;
      but much of its blackness is already wiped away by this manifestation of regret and
      contrition. Do not allow that spark of good feeling to be extinguished—or destruction must
      await you. And above all, I conjure you to avoid the companionship of such men as those who
      have even now by their manner scoffed at your expressions of repentance."  
  Egerton, take this pocket-book: it contains the greater portion of the last sum
      of money that I borrowed of you; and I shall never know peace of mind, until I have restored
      all of which I have been instrumental in plundering you."  
  With these words, Dunstable bowed profoundly to the Prince, and hurried from the room,
      without casting a single glance upon his late confederates in iniquity.  
  "My lord, isn't Newgate to become more familiarly acquainted with them scrape-graces
      Aldborough and Winchester?" asked the old butler, as soon as Dunstable had disappeared from
      the room.  
  "Were it not that I had promised this honest and grateful man," said the Prince, turning
      towards the engraver, "that no criminal proceedings should be instituted on the document that
      he obtained from you, Sir Rupert Harborough, and from you also, Mr. Chichester, I should
      consider myself bound, in justice to myself and as a duty owing to society, to expose in a
      public tribunal the black artifices by which you once inveigled me into your toils. But for
      his sake—for the sake alike of his personal security and of the good character which he now
      enjoys—I must leave your punishment to your own consciences. And, though scoffing smiles may
      now mark the little weight which my prediction carries with it in respect to you, yet rest
      assured that the time   will   come when your misdeeds shall be visited with those
      penalties which it may seem wise to a just heaven to inflict."  
  Having uttered these words, the Prince turned away, with undisguised aversion, from the two
      villains whom he had so impressively and solemnly addressed.  
  They slunk out of the apartment, with chap-fallen countenances, while Whittingham followed
      them to the door of the dining-room, through which they passed, and conveyed to them the
      satisfactory intelligence that "if it had impended on him, they should have been confided with
      strong letters of commendation to the governor of Newgate."  
  As soon as they had departed, Colonel Cholmondeley inquired in an insolent tone whether the
      Prince had any thing to say to   him  ; but finding that Markham turned his back
      contemptuously upon him, he swaggered out of the room, muttering something about "satisfaction
      in another manner."  
  Early the next morning, Mrs. Bustard received the following letter:—  
  
  "  King Square, Goswell Road.  
  
  "Faithful to the promise which I made to you the day before yesterday, my dear aunt, I have
       quitted the West End, and am once more located in a quiet neighbourhood. Thanks to the kind
       interference of that most amiable and excellent nobleman the Prince of Montoni, and to the
       encouragement given me by your forgiveness of the deception which I so shamefully practised
       upon you, I have been completely awakened to the errors of my late mode of life. I shall
       pledge myself to nothing now: my future conduct will prove to you how effectually wise
       counsels and past experience have changed my habits, my inclinations, and my ideas. One
       thing, however, I may state on the present occasion: namely, that I am convinced there is no
       character so truly dangerous and so thoroughly unprincipled as the one who delights in the
       name of '  the man about town  .'  
  "I must also declare that I yesterday handled the dice-box for the last time. Much as I
       loathed the idea, after the dread warnings which I received from the lips of the Prince, I
       nevertheless consented to play a last game—and it   shall   remain the last! But, start
       not, dear aunt—I did so by the desire of the Prince, and that I might induce one of my false
       friends to produce the dice which he always carried about with him. The result was as the
       Prince had anticipated: those dice were so prepared that it was no wonder if their owner was
       constantly a winner. And had not the Prince known my repentance to be sincere, he would not
       for a moment have permitted me to touch those dice again—even though it were to accomplish an
       aim that might the more effectually expose the men by whom I was surrounded!  
  "To the Prince my unbounded gratitude is due. He has saved me from utter ruin, and has
       advised me how to employ the remainder of my fortune so as to recover by my industry what I
       have lost by my folly. It appears that his august father-in-law, the sovereign of
       Castelcicala,—and who has set so good an example to the Italian States by giving a
       Constitution and a national representation to his own country,—has established a line of
       steam-packets between London and Montoni; and it is my intention to trade between the two
       capitals. But the details of this project I will explain to you to-morrow, when I shall have
       the pleasure of calling upon you.  
  "Your affectionate Nephew,  
  ALBERT EGERTON."  
  
  
  CHAPTER CCLI.   THE OBSTINATE PATIENT.  
  It was about a week after the exposure which had taken place in Stratton Street, that the
      following events occurred at the splendid mansion of the Marquis of Holmesford.  
  Although the time-piece upon the mantel of this nobleman's bed-room had only just proclaimed
      the hour of three in the afternoon, yet the curtains were drawn close over the windows, and
      the chamber was rendered as dark as possible.  
  In that apartment, too, there was a profound silence—broken only by the low but irregular
      breathing of some one who slept in the bed.  
  By the side of the couch sate two elderly men, dressed in black, and who maintained a strict
      taciturnity—doubtless for fear of awakening the sleeper.  
  On a small table between them were various bottles containing medicines.  
  The bed stood upon a sort of dais, or raised portion of the floor, this platform being
      attained by two steps. High over the couch was a canopy of velvet and gold, surmounted by the
      coronet of a Marquis, and from whence the rich satin curtains, of dark purple, flowed over
      that voluptuous bed.  
  The room itself was furnished in the most luxurious manner. The rosewood tables were inlaid
      with mother of pearl: the chairs were of antique form, with high backs carved in the most
      exquisite manner;—the mirrors were large, the pictures numerous, and all set in magnificent
      frames;—and the toilette-table was of the most elegant and costly description.  
  And yet he, for whom all this gorgeousness and splendour had been devised,—he, whose wealth
      had converted the entire mansion into a palace that would have even delighted the proudest
      Sultan that ever sate on an oriental throne,—this man, for whom earth had such delights—the
      world so many enjoyments,—this man—the Marquis of Holmesford—was about to succumb to the power
      of the Angel of Death.  
  mockery was it to behold that truly imperial magnificence surrounding the couch
      whereon lay a thin, weak, haggard, and attenuated old man, in whose eyes was already seen that
      stony glare which marks the last looks of dissolving nature!  
  The nobleman awoke, and turned round towards his physicians, who watched at the
      bed-side.  
  One of them rose and drew back the window-curtains as noiselessly as possible; and then the
      pure light of a lovely day streamed into the apartment.  
  The other medical attendant took the nobleman's hand, felt his pulse, and inquired in a low
      whisper "how his lordship felt now?"  
  "Just the same—or may be a little worse," answered the Marquis, in a hollow but feeble tone.
      "And yet it is impossible that I should be in any real danger! Oh! no—I was only taken ill
      last night; and men do not—do not—  die  ," he added, pronouncing the fatal word with a
      most painful effort, "upon so slight a warning."  
  "Your lordship is far from well—very far from well," said the physician, emphatically; "and
      it is my duty to assure you of that fact."  
  "But you—you do not think, doctor," stammered the Marquis, "that I am in any—any real—real
      danger?"  
  And as he spoke, his glassy eyes were for a few moments lighted up with the evanescent fire
      of intense excitement—the agitation of a suspense ineffably painful.  
  "My lord," answered the physician, in a solemn tone, "if you have any affairs of a worldly
      nature to settle——"  
  "No—no: it can't be! You are deceiving me!" almost shrieked the old nobleman, starting up
      wildly to a sitting posture: "do you mean to offend—to insult me when I am a little
      indisposed? For I am convinced that this is only a trifling indisposition—a passing
      illness."  
  "My dear Marquis," said the second physician, advancing towards the bed, "my colleague
      performs but his duty—painful though it be—when he assures you——"  
  "Oh! yes—I understand you," again interrupted the nobleman, catching at a straw: "you do
      right to prepare me for the worst! But mine is not an extreme case—is it? Oh! no—I am certain
      it cannot be! You are both clever men—well versed in all the mysteries of your profession—and
      you can soon restore me to health. There! I will give you each a cheque for five thousand
      pounds the day that you tell me that I may get up again!"  
  And once more did he contemplate them with eager—anxious glances, expressive alike of
      feverish hope and tremendous terror.  
  "Speak—speak!" he cried: "answer me! Five thousand pounds for each of you, the day that I
      leave this bed!"  
  "Were your lordship to offer us all your fortune," answered the elder physician—he who had
      first spoken,—"we could not do more for you than we are now doing. And if you excite yourself
      thus——"  
  "Excite myself, indeed!" ejaculated the Marquis, attempting a laugh—which, however, rather
      resembled a death-rattle that seemed to shake his crazy old frame even to the very vital
      foundations: "is it not enough to make me excited, when you are so foolish as to joke with me
      about my being in danger—although you know that I must recover soon? Don't you know
         that  , doctor?—tell me dear doctor—shall I not be well in a few days—or at all events
      a few weeks? Come—reassure me: say that you only spoke in jest! Danger, indeed! Why, doctor, I
      possess a constitution of iron!"  
  And, thus speaking, the Marquis fell back upon his pillow, in a state of extreme
      exhaustion.  
  The younger physician forced him to swallow some medicine; and for a few minutes he lay
      panting and moaning as if the chords of existence were snapping rapidly one after the
      other.  
  At length he turned again towards his medical attendants.  
  "Well, I do believe that I am rather worse than I just now fancied myself to be," he said,
      in a very faint and feeble tone: "but still I am sure of getting better soon. That medicine
      has already done me good. Three or four bottles of it—and I shall be quite well. Ah! my dear
      friends, you are profoundly skilled in all the secrets of the human frame; and with two such
      physicians as you, it would be impossible to—to—die so soon!"  
  "Pray, my lord, do not excite yourself," observed the elder medical attendant. "Repose and
      rest often prove more efficacious than drugs and potions."  
  "Well—well—I will be quiet—I will tranquillise myself," said the Marquis. "But you must not
      frighten me any more—you must not talk to me about settling my worldly affairs—just as if I
      were indeed about to die," he added, with a ghastly attempt to smile away that expression of
      profound terror which he   felt   to be imprinted on his countenance. "No—no: it is too
      ridiculous to put such ideas into one's head! Why—how old do you take me to be, doctor?"  
  "My lord, you afflict me greatly by this style of discourse," said the elder physician, who
      was thus appealed to. "Most solemnly do I adjure your lordship to compose your mind to that
      state in which every Christian should be prepared for the worst."  
  "Doctor—doctor, you cannot be serious!" again half shrieked the affrighted nobleman. "What!
      am I indeed so very ill? No—no: consider the strength of my constitution—remember how able I
      am to procure by my wealth every means that may conduce to my recovery—think of what you
      yourself can do for me——"  
  "My lord," said the physician, solemnly, "we will exert all human efforts to save you: but
      the result is with God!"  
  The Marquis uttered a hollow groan, and, closing his eyes, appeared to be suddenly wrapt in
      profound meditation.  
  The scene which we have just described, was a most painful one—even to those two physicians
      whose experience in such matters was so extensive. There was something peculiarly horrible in
      that old man of shattered health and exhausted vigour, boasting of the strength of a
      constitution ruined by a long career of debauchery,—boasting, too, even against his own
      internal convictions!  
  was filled with the most appalling apprehensions, he nevertheless clung—he knew
      not how nor wherefore—to a hope that his physicians   might   be deceived—that they had
      exaggerated his danger—that their skill was potent enough to wrestle with the dissolution of
      nature—in a word, that it was quite possible for him to recover.  
  And, if he feared to die, it was not precisely because he dreaded the idea of being suddenly
      plunged into eternity; for he had been a sceptic all his life, and was by no means convinced
      that there was any future state at all. But his mind shrank from the thought of death as from
      a revolting spectacle; and moreover the world had so many charms—such boundless attractions
      for him—that he could not endure the prospect of being called away from those delicious scenes
      for ever!  
  He remained for nearly a quarter of an hour buried in the most profound meditation.  
  "My worthy friends," he at length said, opening his glassy eyes once more, and turning
      towards his physicians, "I am now prepared to hear without excitement any thing you may deem
      it advisable or proper to communicate. In one word, is my state really one of great
      peril?"  
  "Your lordship now speaks as becomes a man of strong mind," answered the elder physician;
      "and in this altered mood you will receive with due tranquillity the sad announcement which I
      am bound to make."  
  "And that announcement?" said the Marquis, hastily.  
  "Is that your lordship's recovery is in the hands of heaven," replied the physician,
      solemnly: "for no human agency can enable you to quit that bed in health again."  
  "And this is your serious conviction?" said the Marquis, grasping the bed-clothes tightly
      with both his hands, as if to restrain an explosion of his agonising feelings.  
  "My duty towards your lordship compels me to answer in the affirmative," returned the
      physician.  
  A pause of some minutes ensued: the Marquis could not trust himself to speak. Silence was
      for a time the only safeguard against a relapse into those wildly-expressed doubts,
      adjurations, and frantic wanderings which had ere now denoted the real condition of his
      mind.  
  "It is then decided—and I must prepare for death!" he at length said, in a low and measured
      tone. "With a candour equal to that which you have already shown, doctor, tell me how long I
      may hope yet to live?"  
  "Do not press me, my lord, on that head——"  
  "Nay: now you are yourself adopting the very means to excite me," interrupted the Marquis,
      angrily. "I am nerved to hear the worst: but I wish that   the worst   may be
      communicated to me. Speak, doctor—speak fearlessly—and say how long I may expect yet to
      live?"  
  The two physicians consulted each other with a rapid interchange of glances; and both
      thereby intimating an affirmative, the elder one said, "Your lordship might probably survive
      four-and-twenty hours."  
  "Four-and-twenty hours!" repeated the Marquis, the bed actually shaking with the cold
      shudder that passed through his frame at this appalling announcement: "four-and-twenty hours!"
      he said a second time: "that is a very short reprieve, indeed! Has your skill no means,
      doctor, of prolonging my existence for a few days—for a few hours, even, longer than the
      amount which you have named?"  
  "There is no hope of accomplishing such a result, my lord," was the reply.  
  "No hope!" murmured the Marquis: then after another short pause, he said in a tone which it
      cost him a dreadful effort to render firm, "Have the kindness to direct that my solicitor may
      be sent for without delay."  
  This desire was immediately complied with; and as the lawyer lived in the neighbourhood,
      scarcely half an hour elapsed ere he was ushered into the presence of the Marquis.  
  The physicians were desired to remain in the room; and the solicitor, seating himself by the
      nobleman's directions at the table near the bed, prepared his writing materials.  
  The Marquis of Holmesford then gave instructions relative to the disposal of his property;
      and the lawyer drew up the will in due form.  
  Having detailed various bequests and legacies, and disposed of the great bulk of his
      fortune, the Marquis, who spoke in a firm and distinct tone of voice, addressed the lawyer in
      the following manner:—  
  "And now, sir, have the kindness to insert the words which I am about to dictate to
       you:—'  Also I will and bequeathe to Katherine Bazzano, half-sister of his Highness
       Richard, Prince of Montoni, the sum of fifty thousand pounds, as a proof of the sincere
       contrition and deep regret which I experience on account of certain proceedings on my part,
       whereby the mother of the said Katherine Bazzano endured grievous wrong and great affliction,
       although perfectly innocent of any evil thought or deed in respect to her husband, the
       deceased father of the above-mentioned Richard Prince of Montoni.  '—Have you written to
      my dictation?"  
  "I have followed your lordship as accurately as the introduction of a few necessary legal
      technicalities into that last clause would permit," was the solicitor's reply.  
  "Then naught now remains for me but to sign the will," said the Marquis; and he sate up in
      the bed, apparently with but little exertion.  
  He affixed his name with a firm hand to the document, and requested the physicians to
      witness it.  
  The ceremony was then completed; and the solicitor took his departure.  
  So soon as he had left the room, the Marquis addressed himself to the physicians in these
      terms:—  
  "My good friends, the ordeal which I most dreaded has been accomplished; and I feel as if a
      considerable weight were taken off my mind. What I now require is that you give me some
      powerful medicament or a strong cordial, that will endow me with sufficient energy to rise
      from this bed and proceed—alone and unattended—to another room in the house,—a room which I
         must   visit—or I should not die in peace! And as a reward for this last service, I
      desire you to divide equally between you the amount which you will find in yonder
      writing-desk. That sum consists of a few thousands, and will, I hope, amply repay the kindness
      which I now expect at your hands."  
  cannot possibly allow you to quit your couch. The excitement might prove almost
      immediately fatal."  
  "I have no time to waste in hearing or answering objections," said the Marquis, his glazing
      eyes lighting up with the fever of impatience, and a hectic flush appearing on his sallow,
      sunken, withered cheeks. "Do what I request—or leave me this moment: give me such a cordial as
      you may think suitable to the purpose—or my valet will supply me with a bumper of
      champagne."  
  "My dear Marquis——"  
  "My lord—my lord——"  
  "In one word, do as I desire—or leave me," exclaimed the nobleman, cutting short the
      ejaculations of the two physicians by an imperious wave of his skeleton-like hand: "there
      shall be no other master save myself in this house, until the breath be out of my body."  
  The physicians essayed farther remonstrances—but in vain. The Marquis grew fearfully
      irritated with their opposition, and then fell back so exhausted upon his pillow, that the
      medical attendants were compelled to administer as a restorative the cordial which he had
      demanded as an artificial stimulant a few minutes previously.  
  The effect of the cordial was really surprising: that old man, whom its influence had just
      snatched—but snatched only for a time—from the out-stretched arms of death, sate up in his
      bed, smiled, and seemed to bid defiance to the destroying angel.  
  "You must humour me now, my friends," he said, in a jocose manner, which contrasted awfully
      with the inevitable peril of his condition: "go to the writing-desk in yonder corner, and let
      me be assured you have possessed yourselves of that token of my good feeling which I bequeathe
      to you."  
  The physicians, rather to please their obstinate patient than to gratify any avaricious
      longing on their part, did as they were desired: but, scarcely had they opened the desk, where
      they observed a bundle of Bank-notes, when a low chuckle met their ears.  
  They turned and beheld the Marquis, clad in a long dressing-gown and with slippers on his
      feet, hurrying out of the room by a small door near the foot of his bed.  
  To hasten after him was their first and most natural impulse; but the key was turned on the
      other side ere they even reached the door.  
  Without losing a moment, they hastened from the room by a door at the opposite extremity;
      but in the adjoining passage they were met by the nobleman's principal valet.  
  "Gentlemen," said the domestic, "his lordship desires me to inform you that he has no
      farther need of your services."  
  "But, my good fellow," exclaimed the younger physician, "your master is dying—he cannot live
      another day; and this excitement—this rash proceeding——"  
  "Is sheer madness!" added the senior medical attendant. "Whither has your master gone?"  
  The valet whispered a few words to the physicians: they understood him full well, and
      exchanged looks of mingled disgust and horror.  
  "The unnatural excitement of this proceeding," at length observed the elder physician, "will
      kill the Marquis within an hour!"  
  
  CHAPTER CCLII.   DEATH OF THE MARQUIS OF HOLMESFORD.  
  We have described at great length, in a former portion of our narrative, the voluptuous
      attractions of that department of Holmesford House which may very properly be denominated "the
      harem."  
  The reader doubtless remembers the vast and lofty room which we depicted as being furnished
      in the most luxurious oriental style, and which was embellished with pictures representing
      licentious scenes from the mythology of the ancients.  
  To that apartment we must now once more direct attention.  
  Grouped together upon two ottomans drawn close to each other, five beautiful women were
      conversing in a tone so low that it almost sank to a whisper; while their charming
      countenances wore an expression of mingled suspense and sorrow.  
  They were all in   deshabillée  , though it was now past four o'clock in the
      afternoon.  
  This negligence, however, extended only to their attire; for each of those lovely creatures
      had bathed her beauteous form in a perfumed bath, and had arranged her hair in the manner best
      calculated to set off its luxuriance to advantage and at the same time to enhance the charms
      of that countenance which it enclosed.  
  But farther than this the toilette of those five fascinating girls had not progressed; and
      the loose morning-wrappers which they wore, left revealed all the glowing beauties of each
      voluptuous bust.  
  There was the Scotch charmer, with her brilliant complexion, her auburn hair, and her red
      cherry lips:—there was the English girl—the pride of Lancashire—with her brown hair, and her
      robust but exquisitely modelled proportions:—and next to her, on the same ottoman, sate the
      Irish beauty, whose sparkling black eyes denoted all the fervour of sensuality.  
  On the sofa facing these three women, sate the French wanton, her taper fingers playing with
      the gold chain which, in the true spirit of coquetry, she had thrown negligently round her
      neck, and the massive links of which made not the least indentation upon the plump fullness of
      her bosom. By her side was the Spanish houri, her long black ringlets flowing on the white
      drapery which set off her transparent olive skin to such exquisite advantage.  
  This group formed an assemblage of charms which would have raised palpitations and excited
      mysterious fires in the heart of the most heaven-devoted anchorite that ever vowed a life of
      virgin-purity.  
  And the picture was the more fascinating—the more dangerous, inasmuch as its voluptuousness
      was altogether unstudied at this moment, and those beauteous creatures noticed not, in their
      sisterly confidence towards each other, that their glowing and half-naked forms were thus
      displayed almost as it might have seemed in a spirit of competition and rivalry.  
  But what is the topic of their discourse? and wherefore has a shade of melancholy displaced
      those joyous smiles that were wont to play upon lips of coral opening above teeth of
      pearls?  
  Let us hear them converse.  
  "This illness is the more unfortunate for us," said the Scotch girl, "because it arrived so
      suddenly."  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  "And before the Marquis had made his will," added the French-woman.  
  "Yes," observed the English beauty,—"it was only yesterday afternoon that he assured us he
      should not fail to take good care of us all whenever he did make his will."  
  "And now he will die intestate, as the lawyers say," murmured the Scotch girl; "and we shall
      be sent forth into the world without resources."  
  "Oh! how shocking to think of!" cried the Spaniard. "I am sure I should die if I were forced
      to quit this charming place."  
  "Nay—now you talk too absurdly, my dear friend," interposed the French charmer; "for,
      beautiful as we all are, we need not be apprehensive of the future."  
  "After all, the Marquis may make his will," said the English girl.  
  "Or recover," added the Irish beauty. "And for my part, I would sooner that he should do
         that   than be snatched away from us so suddenly; for, old as he is, the Marquis is
      very agreeable—very amiable."  
  "From what our maids told us just now," remarked the Scotch girl, "there does not appear to
      be any chance of his lordship's recovery. Besides, he is much older than he ever chose to
      admit to us; and his life has been a long career of pleasure and enjoyment."  
  "Alas! poor old nobleman," said the Irish beauty, Kathleen; "his often-expressed wish does
      not appear destined to be fulfilled! How frequently has he declared that he should die
      contented if surrounded by ourselves, and with a goblet of champagne at his lips!"  
  Scarcely were these words uttered, when the door of the apartment opened abruptly; and the
      Marquis made his appearance.  
  The five women started from their seats, uttering exclamations of joy.  
  The Marquis bolted the door with great caution, and then advanced towards his ladies with a
      smile upon his haggard, pale, and death-like countenance.  
  time to fix in his mouth ere he escaped from the thraldom of his physicians: so
      that the thinness of his cheeks was rendered almost skeleton-like by the sinking in of his
      mouth.  
  The superb dressing-gown seemed a mockery of the shrivelled and wasted form which it loosely
      wrapped; and as the old nobleman staggered towards his mistresses, whose first ebullition of
      joy at his appearance was so suddenly shocked by the ghastly hideousness of his aspect, they
      had not strength nor presence of mind to hasten to meet him.  
  Kathleen was the first to conquer her aversion and dismay; and she caught the Marquis in her
      arms just at the instant when, overcome by the exertions of the last few minutes, he was about
      to sink beneath the weight of sheer exhaustion.  
  Then the other women crowded forward to lend their aid; and the old nobleman was placed upon
      one of the luxurious ottomans.  
  He closed his eyes, and seemed to breathe with great difficulty.  
  "Oh! my God—he is dying!" exclaimed Kathleen: "ring for aid—for the physicians——"  
  "No—no!" murmured the Marquis, in a faint tone; and, opening his eyes once more, he gazed
      around him—vacantly at first, then more steadily,—until he seemed to recover visual strength
      sufficient to distinguish the charming countenances that were fixed upon him with mournful
      interest; "no, my dear girls," he continued, his voice becoming a trifle more powerful; "the
      doors of this room must not be opened again so long as the breath remains in my body—for I am
      come," he added with a smile the ghastliness of which all his efforts could not subdue,—"I am
      come to die amongst you!"  
  "To die—here—amongst us!" ejaculated all the women (save Kathleen), shrinking back in terror
      and dismay.  
  "Yes, my dear girls," returned the Marquis: "and thus will my hope and my prophecy be
      fulfilled. But let us not trifle away the little time that remains to me. Kathleen, my
      charmer—I am faint—my spirit seems to be sinking:—give me wine!"  
  "Wine, my lord?" she repeated, in a tone of kind remonstrance.  
  "Yes—wine—delicious, sparkling wine!" cried the nobleman, raising himself partially up on
      the cushions of the sofa. "Delay not—give me champagne!"  
  The French and Spanish girls hastened to a splendid buffet near the stage at the end of the
      room, and speedily returned to the vicinity of the ottoman, bearing between them a massive
      silver salver laden with bottles and glasses.  
  The wine was poured forth: the Marquis desired Kathleen to steady his hand as he conveyed
      the nectar to his lips; and he drained the glass of its contents.  
  A hectic tinge appeared upon his cheeks; his eyes were animated with a partial fire; and he
      even seemed happy, as he commanded his ladies to drink bumpers of champagne all round.  
  "Consider that I am going on a long journey, my dear girls," he exclaimed, with a smile;
      "and do not let our parting be sorrowful. Kathleen, my sweet one, come nearer: there—place
      yourself so that I may recline my head on your bosom—and now throw that warm, plump, naked arm
      over my shoulder. Oh! this is paradise!"  
  And for a few minutes the hoary voluptuary, whose licentious passions were dominant even in
      death, closed his eyes and seemed to enjoy with intense gratification all the luxury of his
      position.  
  It was a painful and disgusting sight to behold the shrivelled, haggard, and attenuated
      countenance of the dying sensualist, pressing upon that full and alabaster globe so warm with
      health, life, and glowing passions;—painful and disgusting, too, to see that thin, emaciated,
      and worn-out frame reclining in the arms of a lovely girl in the vigour and strength of
      youth:—hideous—hideous to view that contiguity of a sapless, withered trunk and a robust and
      verdant tree!  
  "Girls," said the Marquis, at length opening his eyes, but without changing his position,
      "it is useless to attempt to conceal the truth from you: you know that I am dying! Well—no
      matter: sooner or later Death must come to all! My life has been a joyous—a happy one; and to
      you who solace me in my dissolution, I am not ungrateful. Anna, dearest—thrust your hand into
      the pocket of my dressing-gown."  
  The French-woman obeyed this command, and drew forth a sealed packet, addressed to the five
      ladies by their christian and surnames.  
  "Open it," said the Marquis. "Two months ago I made this provision for you, my dear
      girls—because, entertaining foolish apprehensions relative to making my will, I felt the
      necessity of at least taking care of you."  
  While the nobleman was yet speaking, Anna had opened the packet, whence she drew forth a
      number of Bank-notes.  
  There were ten—each for a thousand pounds; and a few words written within the envelope
      specified that the amount was to be equally divided amongst the five ladies.  
  "Oh! my dear Marquis, how liberal!" exclaimed the French girl, her countenance becoming
      radiant with joy.  
  "How generous!" cried the English beauty.  
  "How noble!" ejaculated the Scotch charmer.  
  "It is more than generous and noble—it is princely!" said the Spanish houri.  
  Kathleen simply observed, "My dear lord, I thank you most unfeignedly for this kind
      consideration on your part."  
  The Marquis made no reply; but taking the delicate white hand of the Irish girl, as he lay
      pillowed upon her palpitating breast, he gently slipped upon one of her taper fingers a ring
      of immense value.  
  He then squeezed her hand to enjoin silence; and this act was not perceived by the other
      ladies, who were too busily employed in feasting their eyes upon the Bank-notes to pay
      attention to aught beside.  
  "Come—fill the glasses!" suddenly exclaimed the Marquis, after a short pause: "I feel that
      my strength is failing me fast—the sand of my life's hour-glass is running rapidly away!"  
  The French girl—to whose mind there was something peculiarly heroical and romantic in the
      conduct of the Marquis—hastened to obey the order which had been specially addressed to her;
      and the sparkling juice of Epernay again moistened the parched throat of the dying man, and
      also enhanced the carnation tints upon the cheeks of the five youthful beauties.  
  addressing himself to the French and Spanish women, "gratify me by dancing some
      pleasing and voluptuous measure,—while you, my loves," he added, turning his glazing eyes upon
      the Scotch and English girls, "play a delicious strain,—so that my spirit may ebb away amidst
      the soothing ecstacies of the blissful scene!"  
  The Marquis spoke in a faint and tremulous voice, for he felt himself growing every moment
      weaker and weaker; and his head now lay, heavy and motionless, upon the bosom of the Irish
      girl, whose warm and polished arm was thrown around him.  
  The Scotch and English girls hastened to place themselves, the former before a splendid
      harp, and the latter at a pianoforte, the magnificent tones of which had never failed to
      excite the admiration of all who ever heard them.  
  Then the French and Spanish women commenced a slow, languishing, and voluptuous dance, the
      evolutions of which were well adapted to display the fine proportions of their half-naked
      forms.  
  A smile relaxed the features of the dying man; and his glances followed the movements of
      those foreign girls who vied with each other in assuming the most lascivious attitudes.  
  By degrees, that exciting spectacle grew indistinct to the eyes of the Marquis; and the
      music no longer fell upon his ears in varied and defined tones, but with a droning monotonous
      sound.  
  "Kathleen—Kathleen," he murmured, speaking with the utmost difficulty, "reach me the
      glass—place the goblet to my lips—it will revive me for a few minutes——"  
  The Irish girl shuddered in spite of herself—shuddered involuntarily as she felt the cheek
      of the Marquis grow cold and clammy against her bosom.  
  "Kathleen—dear Kathleen," he murmured in a whisper that was scarcely audible; "give me the
      goblet!"  
  Conquering her repugnance, the Irish girl, who possessed a kind and generous heart, reached
      a glass on the table near the sofa; and, raising the nobleman's head, she placed the wine to
      his lips.  
  With a last—last expiring effort, he took the glass in his own hand, and swallowed a few
      drops of its contents:—his eyes were lighted up again for a moment, and his cheek flushed; but
      his head fell back heavily upon the white bosom.  
  Kathleen endeavoured to cry for aid—and could not: a sensation of fainting came over her—she
      closed her eyes—and a suffocating feeling in the throat almost choked her.  
  But still the music continued and the dance went on, for several minutes more.  
  All at once a shriek emanated from the lips of Kathleen: the music ceased—the dance was
      abandoned—and the Irish girl's companions rushed towards the sofa.  
  Their anticipations were realised: the Marquis was no more!  
  The hope which he had so often expressed in his life-time, was fulfilled almost to the very
      letter;—for the old voluptuary had "  died with his head pillowed on the naked—heaving bosom
       of beauty, and with a glass of sparkling champagne in his hand  !"  
  
  CHAPTER CCLIII.   THE EX-MEMBER FOR ROTTENBOROUGH.  
  It was now the middle of April, 1843.  
  The morning was fine, and the streets were marked with the bustle of men of business,
      clerks, and others repairing to their respective offices, when Mr. George Montague Greenwood
      turned from Saint Paul's Churchyard into Cheapside.  
  He was attired in a plain, and even somewhat shabby manner: there was not a particle of
      jewellery about him; and a keen eye might have discovered, in the   tout
       ensemble   of his appearance, that his toilette had been arranged with every
      endeavour to produce as good an effect as possible.  
  Thus his neckcloth was tied with a precision seldom bestowed upon a faded piece of black
      silk: his shirt-cuffs were drawn down so as to place an interval of snowy white between the
      somewhat threadbare sleeve of the blue coat and the common grey glove of Berlin wool:—a black
      riband hung round his neck and was gathered at the ends in the right pocket of the soiled
      satin waistcoat, so as to leave the beholder in a state of uncertainty whether it were
      connected with a watch or only an eye-glass—or, indeed, with any thing at all;—and the
      Oxford-mixture trousers,   rather   white at the knees, were strapped tightly over a pair
      of well-blacked bluchers, a casual observer would certainly have taken for Wellingtons.  
  In his hand he carried a neat black cane; and his gait was characterised by much of the
      self-sufficiency which had marked it in better days. It was, however, far removed from a
      swagger: Greenwood was too much of a gentleman in his habits to fall into the slightest
      manifestation of vulgarity.  
  His beautiful black hair, curling and glossy, put to shame the brownish hue of the beaver
      hat which had evidently seen some service, and had lately been exposed to all the varieties of
      weather peculiar to this capricious climate. His face—eminently handsome, as we have before
      observed—was pale and rather thin; but there was a haughty assurance in the proud curl of the
      upper lip, and a fire in his large dark eyes, which showed that hope was not altogether a
      stranger to the breast of Mr. George Montague Greenwood.  
  It was about a quarter past nine in the morning when this gentleman entered the great
      thoroughfare of Cheapside.  
  Perhaps there is no street in all London which presents so many moral phases to the eyes of
      the acute beholder as this one, and at that hour; inasmuch as those eyes may single out, and
      almost read the pursuit of, every individual forming an item in the dense crowd that is then
      rolling onward to the vicinity of the Bank of England.  
  For of every ten persons, nine are proceeding in that direction.  
  Reader, let us pause for a moment and examine the details of the scene to which we allude:
      for Greenwood has slackened his pace—his eye has caught sight of Bow clock—and he perceives
      that he is yet too early to commence the visits which he intends to make in certain
      quarters.  
  part of the night at a free-and-easy. He is smoking a cigar—at that hour of the
      morning! It is impossible to gaze at him for two seconds, without being convinced that he is
      an articled clerk to an attorney, and that he doesn't care so long as he reaches the office
      just five minutes before the "governor" arrives.  
  But that old man, with a threadbare suit of black, and the red cotton handkerchief sticking
      so suspiciously out of his pocket, as if he had something wrapped up in it,—who is he? Mark
      how he shuffles along, dragging his heavy high-lows over the pavement at a pace too speedy for
      his attenuated frame: and see with what anxiety he looks up at the clock projecting out far
      overhead, to assure himself that he shall yet be at his office within two minutes of half-past
      nine—or else risk his place and the eighteen shillings a week which it brings him in, and on
      which he has to support a wife and large family. He is a copying clerk in a lawyer's
      office—there can be no doubt of it; and the poor man has his dinner wrapped up in his
      pocket-handkerchief!  
  Do you observe that proud, pompous-looking stout man, with the large yellow cane in his
      hand, and the massive chain and seals hanging from his fob? He is a stockbroker who, having
      got up a bubble Railway Company, has enriched himself in a single day, after having struggled
      against difficulties for twenty years. But, see—a fashionably-dressed gentleman, with a
         little   too much jewellery about his person, and a   rather   too severe swagger
      in his gait, overtakes our stout friend, and passes his arm familiarly in his as he wishes him
      "good morning." There is no mistake about this individual: he is the Managing-Director of the
      stockbroker's Company, and was taken from a three-pair back in the New Cut to preside at the
      Board.   Arcades ambo  —a precious pair!  
  Glance a moment at that great, stout, shabbily-dressed man, whose trousers are so tight that
      they certainly never could have been made for him, and whose watery boiled-kind of eyes,
      vacant look, and pale but bloated face, denote the habitual gin-drinker. He rolls along with a
      staggering gait, as if the effects of the previous night's debauch had not been slept off, or
      as if he had already taken his first dram. He is on his way to the neighbourhood of the Bank,
      where he either loiters about on the steps of the Auction Mart, or at the door of Capel Court,
      or else proceeds to some public-house parlour "which he frequents." His business is to hawk
      bills about for discount; and, to hear him speak, one would believe that he could raise a
      million of money in no time—whereas he has most likely the pawn-ticket of his Sunday's coat in
      his pocket.  
  And now mark that elderly, sedate, quiet-looking man, whose good black suit is well-brushed
      and his boots nicely polished. He compares his heavy gold watch with the clock of Bow church,
      and is quite delighted to see that   his   time is correct to a second. And now he
      continues his way, without looking to the right or the left: he knows every feature—every
      shop—every lamp-post of Cheapside and the Poultry too well to have any farther curiosity about
      those thoroughfares—for he has passed along that way every morning, Sundays excepted, during
      the last twenty years. Are you not prepared to make an affidavit that he is a superior clerk
      in the Bank of England?  
  But we must abandon any farther scrutiny of the several members of the crowd in Cheapside—at
      least for the present; because it is now half-past nine o'clock, and Mr. Greenwood has reached
      Cornhill.  
  Here he paused—and sighed,—sighed deeply.  
  That sigh told a long and painful history,—of how he had lately been rich and prosperous—how
      he had lost all by grasping at more—how he was now reduced almost to the very verge of
      penury—and how he wondered whether he should ever be wealthy and great again!  
  "Yes—yes: I   will   be!" he said to himself—speaking not with his lips, but with that
      silent though emphatic tongue which belongs to the soul. "My good star cannot have deserted me
      for ever! But this day must show!"  
  Then, calling all his assurance to his aid, he turned into the office of a well-known
      merchant and capitalist on Cornhill.  
  The clerks did not immediately recognise him; for the last time he had called there, it was
      at four in the afternoon and he had alighted from an elegant cab: whereas now it was half-past
      nine in the morning, and he had evidently come on foot. But when he demanded, in his usual
      authoritative tone, whether their master had arrived yet, they recollected him, and replied in
      the affirmative.  
  Greenwood accordingly walked into the merchant's private office.  
  "Ah! my dear sir," he said, extending his hand towards the merchant, "how do you find
      yourself? It is almost an age since we met."  
  The merchant affected not to perceive the out-stretched hand; nor did he return the bland
      smile with which Mr. Greenwood accosted him. But, just raising his eyes from the morning paper
      which lay before him, he said in a cold tone, "Oh! Mr. Greenwood, I believe? Pray, sir, what
      is your business?"  
  The ex-member for Rottenborough took a chair uninvited, and proceeded to observe in a
      confidential kind of whisper,—"The fact is, my dear sir, I have conceived a magnificent
      project for making a few thousands into as many millions, I may say; and as on former
      occasions you and I have done   some   little business together—and I have put a
         few   good things in your way—I thought I would give you the refusal of my new
      design."  
  "I am really infinitely obliged to you, Mr. Greenwood——"  
  "Oh! I knew you would be, my dear sir!" interrupted the ex-member. "The risk is nothing—the
      gains certain and enormous. You and I can keep it all to ourselves; and——"  
  "You require me to advance the funds, I presume?" asked the merchant, eyeing his visitor
      askance.  
  "Just so—a few thousands only—to be repaid out of the first proceeds, of course," returned
      Greenwood.  
  "Then, sir, I beg to decline the speculation," said the merchant, drily.  
  "Speculation! it is   not   a speculation," cried Greenwood: "it is a certainty."  
  "Nevertheless, sir, I must decline it; and as my time is very much occupied——"  
  "Oh! I shall not intrude upon you any longer," interrupted Greenwood, indignantly; and he
      strode out of the office.  
  himself, when he had gained the street. "After all the good things I have placed
      in his way, to treat me in this manner. But, never mind—let me once grow rich again and I will
      humble him at my feet!"  
  In spite of this attempt at self-consolation, Greenwood was deeply mortified with the
      reception which he had experienced at the merchant's office: his anger had, however, cooled
      and his spirits revived by the time he reached Birchin Lane, where dwelt another of his City
      acquaintances.  
  This individual was a capitalist who had once been saved from serious embarrassment, if not
      from total ruin, by a timely advance of funds made to him by Greenwood; and though the
      capitalist had paid enormous interest for the accommodation, he had nevertheless always
      exhibited the most profound gratitude towards the ex-member for Rottenborough.  
  It was, therefore, with great confidence that Greenwood entered the private office of the
      capitalist.  
  "Ah! my dear fellow," cried the latter, apparently overjoyed to see his visitor, "how
         have   you been lately? Why—it is really an age since I have seen you! Pray sit
      down—and now say what I can do for you."  
  Greenwood addressed him in terms similar to those which he had used with the merchant a few
      minutes previously.  
  "And so you actually have a scheme that will make millions, my dear Greenwood?" said the
      capitalist, his entire countenance beaming with smiles.  
  "Just as I tell you," answered the ex-member.  
  "And you have considered it in all its bearings?"  
  "In every shape and way. Success is certain."  
  "Oh! what a lucky dog you are," cried the capitalist, playfully thrusting his fingers into
      Greenwood's ribs.  
  "Well—I can't say that I am lucky," observed the latter, in a measured tone. "I have had
      losses lately—serious losses: but you know that I am not the man to be long in remedying
      them."  
  "Far from it, my boy!" exclaimed the capitalist. "You will make an enormous fortune before
      you die—I am sure you will. And this new scheme of yours,—although you have only hinted darkly
      at it,—  must   succeed—I am convinced it must."  
  "Then you are prepared to join me in the project?" said Greenwood.  
  "Nothing would give me greater pleasure, my dear friend," ejaculated the capitalist: "but it
      is impossible."  
  "Impossible! How can that be, since you think so well of any thing which I may devise?"
      asked Greenwood.  
  "God bless your soul!" cried the other; "money is money now-a-days. For my part I can't
      think where the devil it all gets to! One hears of it—reads of it—but never sees it! In fact,"
      he added, sinking his voice to a mysterious whisper, "I do believe that there is no such thing
      now as money in the whole City."  
  "Ridiculous!" exclaimed Greenwood. "Complaints from   you   are absurd—because every
      one knows that you have made an enormous fortune since that time when I was so happy to save
      you from bankruptcy."  
  "Yes—yes," said the capitalist: "I remember that incident—I have never forgot it—I always
      told you I never should."  
  "Then, in plain terms," continued Greenwood, "do me the service of advancing two or three
      thousand pounds to set my new project in motion."  
  "Impossible, Greenwood—impossible!" cried the capitalist, buttoning up his breeches-pockets.
      "Things are in such a state that I would not venture a penny upon the most feasible
      speculation in the world."  
  "Perhaps you will lend me a sum——"  
  "Lend! Ah! ha! Now, really, Greenwood, this is too good! Lend, indeed! What—when we are all
      in the borrowing line in the City!"—and the capitalist chuckled, as if he had uttered a
      splendid joke.  
  "In one word, then," said Greenwood, relishing this mirth as little as a person in his
      situation was likely to do; "will you assist my temporary wants—even if you do not choose to
      enter into my speculation? You know that I am proud, and that it must pain me thus to speak to
      you: but I declare most solemnly that fifty pounds at this moment would be of the greatest
      service to me."  
  "Nothing gives me more pain than to refuse a friend like you," answered the capitalist:
      "but, positively, I could not part with a shilling to-day to save my own brother from a
      gaol."  
  Greenwood rose, put on his hat, and left the office without uttering another word.  
  He felt that he was righteously punished—for   he   had, in his time, often treated men
      in the same manner,—professing ardent friendship, and yet refusing the smallest pecuniary
      favour!  
  Having walked about for nearly half an hour, to calm the feelings which the conduct of the
      capitalist had so painfully excited, Greenwood repaired to the office of a great
      bill-discounter and speculator in Broad Street. This individual had been a constant visitor at
      Greenwood's house in Spring Gardens—had joined him in many of his most profitable
      speculations—and had gained considerable sums thereby. He was, moreover, of a very
      enterprising character, and always ready to risk money with the hope of large returns.  
  Greenwood entered the clerks' office; and, glancing towards the private one at the lower
      extremity, he caught sight of the speculator's countenance peering over the blinds of the
      glass-door which opened between the two rooms.  
  The face was instantly withdrawn; and Greenwood, who of course affected not to have observed
      its appearance at the window, inquired whether the speculator was within.  
  "Really I can't say, sir," drawled a clerk, who was mending a pen: then, without desisting
      from his operation, he said, "I'll see, sir, in a moment."  
  "Be so kind as to see   this   moment," exclaimed Greenwood, angrily. "I suppose you
      know who I am?"  
  "Oh! yes—sir—certainly, sir," returned the clerk; and, having duly nibbed the pen, he
      dismounted very leisurely from his stool—paused to arrange a piece of blotting-paper on the
      desk in a very precise manner indeed—brushed the splinters of the quill from his trousers—and
      then dragged himself in a lazy fashion towards the private office.  
  Greenwood bit his quivering lip with rage.  
  "Two years ago," he thought to himself, "I should not have been treated thus!"  
  Meantime the clerk entered the inner office, and carefully closed the door behind
      him.  
  Greenwood could hear the murmuring sounds of two voices within.  
  At length the clerk re-appeared, and said in a careless tone, "The governor isn't in, Mr.
      Greenwood: I thought he was—but he isn't—and, what's more, I don't know when he will be. You'd
      better look in again, if it's particular; but I know the governor's uncommon busy to-day."  
  "I shall not trouble you nor your   governor   any more," returned Greenwood, his heart
      ready to break at the cool, deliberate insult thus put upon him. "You think me a fallen
      man—and you dare to treat me thus. But——"  
  "Why, as for   that  ," interrupted the clerk, with impertinent emphasis, "every one
      knows you're broke and done up—and my governor doesn't want shabby insolvents hanging about
      his premises."  
  Greenwood's countenance became scarlet as these bitter taunts met his ears; and for a moment
      he felt inclined to rush upon the insolent clerk and punish him severely with his cane.  
  But, being naturally of a cool and cautious disposition, he perceived with a second thought
      that he might only become involved in a dilemma from which he had no means to extricate
      himself: so, conquering his passion, he rushed out of the office.  
  He could now no longer remain blind to the cruel conviction that the extremities of his
      position were well known in the City, and that the hopes with which he had sallied forth three
      hours previously were mere delusive visions.  
  Still he was resolved to leave no stone unturned in the endeavour to retrieve his ruined
      fortunes; but feeling sick at heart and the prey to a deep depression of spirits, he plunged
      hastily into a public-house to take some refreshment.  
  And now behold the once splendid and fastidious Greenwood,—the man who had purchased the
      votes of a constituency, and had even created a sensation within the walls of Parliament,—the
      individual who had discounted bills of large amount for some of the greatest peers of England,
      and whose luxurious mode of living had once been the envy and wonder of the fashionable
      world,—behold the ex-member for Rottenborough partaking of a pint of porter and a crust of
      bread and cheese in the dingy parlour of a public-house!  
  There was a painful knitting of the brows, and there was a nervous quivering of the lip,
      which denoted the acute emotions to which he was a prey, as he partook of his humble fare; and
      once—once, two large tears trickled down his cheeks, and moistened the bread that he was
      conveying to his mouth.  
  For he thought of the times when money was as dirt in his estimation,—when he rode in
      splendid vehicles, sate down to sumptuous repasts, was ministered unto by a host of servants
      in gorgeous liveries, and revelled in the arms of the loveliest women of the metropolis.  
  Oh! he thought of all this: he recalled to mind the well-filled wardrobes he had once
      possessed, and glanced at his present faded attire;—he shook up the remains of the muddy beer
      at the bottom of the pewter-pot, and remembered the gold he had lavished on champagne: his
      eyes lingered upon the crumbs of the bread and the rind of the cheese left on the plate, and
      his imagination became busy with the reminiscences of the turtle and venison that had once
      smoked upon his board.  
  But worse—oh! far worse than this was the dread conviction that all his lavish
      expenditure—all his ostentatious display—all his princely feasts, had failed to secure him a
      single friend!  
  No wonder, then, that the bitter—bitter tears started from his eyes; and, though he
      immediately checked that first ebullition of heart-felt anguish yet the effort only caused the
      storm of emotions to rage the more painfully within his breast.  
  For, in imagination, he cast his eyes towards a mansion a few miles distant; and there he
      beheld   one   whose condition formed a striking contrast with his own—  one   who
      had suddenly burst from obscurity and created for himself as proud a name as might be found in
      Christendom,—a young man whose indomitable energies and honourable aspirations had enabled him
      to lead armies to conquest, and who had taken his place amongst the greatest Princes in the
      universe!  
  The comparison which Greenwood drew—despite of himself—between the elevated position of
      Richard Markham and his own fallen, ruined lot, produced feelings of so painful—so exquisitely
      agonising a nature, that he could endure them no longer. He felt that they were goading him to
      madness—the more so because he was alone in that dingy parlour at the time, and was therefore
      the least likely to struggle against them successfully.  
  Hastily quitting the public-house, he rushed into the street, where the fresh air seemed to
      do him good.  
  And then he asked himself whether he should risk farther insult by calling upon other
      wealthy men with whom he had once been on intimate terms? For a few moments he was inclined to
      abandon the idea: but a little calm reflection told him not to despair.  
  Moreover, he had a reason—a powerful motive for exerting all his energies to repair the
      past, so far as his worldly fortunes were concerned; and though the idea was almost insane, he
       hoped—  if he had but a chance  —to make such good use of the coming few weeks as would
      reinstate him in the possession of enormous wealth.  
  But, alas! it seemed as if no one would listen to the scheme which he felt convinced was
      calculated to return millions for the risk of a few thousands!  
  "Oh! I   must   retrieve myself—I   must   make a fortune!" he thought, as he
      hurried towards Moorgate Street. "One lucky stroke—and four-and-twenty hours shall see me rich
      again!"  
  This idea brought a smile to his lips; and, relaxing his pace, he composed his countenance
      as well as he could ere he entered the office of a wealthy stockbroker in Moorgate Street.  
  The stockbroker was lounging over the clerks' desk, conversing with a merchant whom
      Greenwood also knew; and the moment the ex-member for Rottenborough entered, the two City
      gentlemen treated him to a long, impertinent, and contemptuous stare.  
  "Ah!" said Greenwood, affecting a pleasant smile, which, God knows! did not come from the
      heart; "you do not appear to recollect me? Am I so very much changed as all
        that  ?"  
  "Well—it   is  merchant in a manner that was equivalent to saying, "I wonder at his impudence in
      coming here."  
  "Yes—it   is   Greenwood," observed the merchant, putting his glasses up to his eyes:
      "or rather the shadow of Greenwood, I should take it to be."  
  "Ah! ha! ha!" chuckled the stockbroker.  
  "You are disposed to be facetious, gentlemen," said the object of this intended witticism
      but really galling insult: "I presume that my long absence from the usual City haunts——"  
  "I can assure you, Greenwood," interrupted the stockbroker, "that the City has got on
      uncommonly well without you. The Bank hasn't stopped payment—bills are easy of discount—money
      is plentiful——"  
  "And yet," said Greenwood, determined to receive all this sarcasm as quietly as a poor devil
      ought to do when about to make a proposal requiring an advance of funds,—"and yet a certain
      capitalist—a very intimate friend of mine, in Birchin Lane—assured me just now that money was
      very scarce."  
  "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the stockbroker.  
  "He! he! he!" chuckled the merchant.  
  "Why, the fact is, Greenwood," continued the broker, "your   very intimate friend   the
      capitalist was here only a quarter of an hour ago; and he delighted us hugely by telling us
      how you called upon him this morning with a scheme that would make millions, and ended by
      wanting to borrow fifty pounds of him."  
  "He! he! he!" again chuckled the merchant.  
  "Ha! ha! ha!" once more laughed the stockbroker; and, taking his friend's arm, he led him
      into his private office, the two continuing to laugh and chuckle until the door closed behind
      them.  
  Greenwood now became aware of the gratifying fact that every clerk in the counting-house was
      laughing also; and he rushed out into the street, a prey to feelings of the most agonising
      nature.  
  But the ignominy of that day was not yet complete in respect to him.  
  As he darted away from the door of the insolent stockbroker's office, he came in collision
      with two gentlemen who were walking arm-in-arm towards the Bank.  
  "'Pon my honour, my good fellow——" began one, rubbing his arm which had been hurt by the
      encounter.  
  "Greenwood!" cried the second, stepping back in surprise.  
  The ex-member for Rottenborough raised his eyes at the sounds of those well-known voices,
      and beheld Mr. Chichester, with his inseparable friend the baronet, both eyeing him in the
      most insulting manner.  
  "Ah! Greenwood, my dear fellow," exclaimed Sir Rupert; "I am really quite delighted to see
      you. How get on the free and independent electors of Rottenborough? Egad, though—you are not
      quite the pink of fashion that you used to be—when you did me the honour of making my wife
      your mistress."  
  "Greenwood and Berlin-wool gloves—impossible!" cried Chichester. "Such a companionship is
      quite unnatural!"  
  "And an old coat brushed up to look like a new one," added the baronet, laughing
      heartily.  
  "And bluchers——"  
  Greenwood stayed to hear no more: he broke from the hold which the two friends had laid upon
      him, and darted down an alley into Coleman Street.  
  
  CHAPTER CCLIV.   FURTHER MISFORTUNES.  
  Greenwood had been insulted by those wealthy citizens who once considered themselves
      honoured by his notice; and   this   he might have borne, because he was man of the world
      enough to know that poverty is a crime in the eyes of plodding, money-making persons.  
  But to be made the jest of a couple of despicable adventurers—to be jeered at by two knaves
      for whom he entertained the most sovereign contempt, because their rascalities had been
      conducted on a scale of mean swindling rather than in the colourable guise of financial
      enterprise,—to be laughed at and mocked by such men as those, because they happened to have
      good clothes upon their backs,—Oh! this was a crushing—an intolerable insult!  
  The unhappy Greenwood felt it most keenly: he writhed beneath the sharp lash of that bitter
      sarcasm which had been hurled against his shabby appearance;—he groaned under the scourge of
      those contemptuous scoffs!  
  Sanguine as his disposition naturally was,—confident as he ever felt in his own talents for
      intrigue and scheming,—he was now suddenly cast down; and hope fled from his soul.  
  Not for worlds would he have risked the chance of receiving farther insult that day, by
      calling at the counting-house of another capitalist!  
  And now he fled from the City with a species of loathing,—as much depressed by
      disappointment as he had been elated by hope when he entered it a few hours previously.  
  He crossed Blackfriars' Bridge, turned into Holland Street, and thence entered John Street,
      where he knocked timidly at the door of a house of very mean appearance.  
  A stout, vulgar-looking woman, with carrotty hair, tangled as a mat, overshadowing a red and
      bloated face, thrust her head out of the window on the first floor.  
  "Well?" she cried, in an impertinent tone.  
  "Will you have the kindness to let me in, Mrs. Brown?" said Greenwood, calling to his aid
      all that blandness of manner which had once served him us a powerful auxiliary in his days of
      extensive intrigue.  
  "That depends," was the abrupt reply. "Have you brought any money with you?"  
  "Mrs. Brown, I cannot explain myself in the street," said the unhappy man, who saw that a
      storm was impending. "Please to let me in—and——"  
  "Come—none of that gammon!" shouted the landlady of the house, for the behoof of all her
      neighbours who were lounging at their doors. "Have you brought me one pound seventeen and
      sixpence—yes or no? 'Cos, if you haven't, I shall just put up a bill to let my lodgings—and
      you may go about your business."  
  "But, Mrs. Brown——"  
  "Don't Mrs. Brown   me  gesticulating violently. "It's my opinion as you wants to do me brown—and that's
      all about it."  
  "What is it, dear Mrs. Brown?" inquired a woman, with a child in her arms, stepping from the
      door of the adjoining dwelling to the kerb-stone, and looking up at the window.  
  "What is it?" vociferated Greenwood's landlady, who only required such a question as the one
      just put to her in order to work herself into a towering passion: "what is it? Why, would you
      believe it, Mrs. Sugden, that this here swindling feller as tries to look so much like the
      gentleman, but isn't nothink more than a Swell-Mob's-man—and   that   was my rale opinion
      of him all along—comes here, as you know, Mrs. Sugden, and hires my one-pair back for seven
      and sixpence a-week——"  
  "Shameful!" cried Mrs. Sugden, darting a look of fierce indignation upon the miserable
      Greenwood.  
  "So it were, ma'am," continued Mrs. Brown, now literally foaming at the mouth: "and though
      he had his clean pair of calico sheets every fortnight and a linen piller-case which my
      husband took out o' pawn on purpose to make him comfortable——".  
  "  Dis  -graceful!" ejaculated Mrs. Sugden, casting up her eyes to heaven, as if she
      could not have thought the world capable of such an atrocity.  
  "And then arter all, that feller there runs up one pound seventeen and six in no time—going
      tick even for the blacking of his boots and his lucifers——"  
  Greenwood stayed to hear no more: he perceived that all hope of obtaining admission to his
      lodging was useless; and he accordingly stole off, followed by the abuse of Mrs. Brown, the
      opprobrious epithets of Mrs. Sugden, and the scoffs of half-a-dozen of the neighbours.  
  It was now four o'clock in the afternoon; and Greenwood found himself retracing his way over
      Blackfriars' Bridge, without knowing whither he was going—or without even having any place to
      go to.  
  He was literally houseless—homeless!  
  His few shirts and other necessaries were left behind at the lodging which had just been
      closed against him; and a few halfpence in his pocket, besides the garments upon his back,
      were all his worldly possessions.  
  "And has it come to this?" he thought within himself, as he hurried over the bridge, not
      noticing the curiosity excited on the part of the crowd by his strange looks and wildness of
      manner: "has it come to this at length? Homeless—and a beggar!—a wretched wanderer in this
      great city where I once rode in my carriage! Oh! my God—I deserve it all!"  
  And he hurried franticly along—hell raging in his bosom.  
  At length it suddenly struck him that he was gesticulating violently in the open street and
      in the broad day-light; and he was overwhelmed with a sense of deep shame and profound
      humiliation.  
  He rushed across Bridge Street, with the intention of plunging into one of those lanes
      leading towards Whitefriars; when a cry of alarm resounded in his ears—and in another moment
      he was knocked down by a cabriolet that was driving furiously along.  
  The wheel passed over his right leg; and a groan of agony escaped him.  
  The vehicle instantly stopped: the livery servant behind sprang to the ground; and, with the
      aid of a policeman who came up to the spot the instant the accident occurred, the domestic
      raised Greenwood from the pavement.  
  But an agonising cry, wrung from him by the excruciating pain which he felt in his right
      leg, showed that he was seriously injured; and the policeman said, "We must take him to the
      hospital."  
  There were two gentlemen in the cabriolet; and one of them, leaning out, said, "What's the
      matter with the fellow—smite him!"  
  "Yeth—what ith it all about, poleethman?" demanded the other gentleman, also thrusting
      forward his head.  
  Greenwood recognised their voices, and turned his face towards them in an imploring manner:
      but he suffered too acutely to speak.  
  "My gwathiouth! Thmilackth," cried Sir Cherry Bounce, who was one of the inmates of the cab:
      "may I die if it ithn't Gweenwood!"  
  "So it is, Cherry—strike me!" ejaculated the Honourable Major Dapper. "Here, policeman! see
      that he's taken proper care of—in the hospital——"  
  "Yeth—in the hothpital," echoed Sir Cherry.  
  "Hold your tongue, Cherry—you're a fool," cried the Major. "And, policeman, if you want to
      communicate with me upon the subject—I mean, if any thing should happen to the poor devil, you
      know—you can call or write. Here's my card—and here's a guinea for yourself."  
  "Thanke'e, sir," returned the officer: "but won't you be so kind as to give him a lift in
      your cab as far as Saint Bartholomew's?"  
  "Quite out of the quethtion!" exclaimed Sir Cherry.  
  "Oh! quite," said the Honourable Major Smilax Dapper. "We are engaged to dine at the house
      of some friends with whom Lady Bounce—that's this gentleman's wife—is staying; and we are late
      as it is. You must get a stretcher, policeman—strike me! Now then, John!"  
  "All right, sir!" cried the servant, springing up behind the vehicle.  
  And away went the cabriolet with the rapidity of lightning.  
  In the meantime a crowd had collected; and amongst the spectators thus assembled were two
      individuals who seemed to take a more than common interest in the painful scene.  
  One was Filippo, who happened to be passing at the moment: but he kept behind the crowd, so
      that Greenwood might not perceive him.  
  The other was the hump-back Gibbet, whom accident likewise made a witness of the event, and
      who, observing the cruel indifference with which the gentlemen in the cab had treated a
      misfortune caused by themselves, felt suddenly interested in behalf of the victim of their
      carelessness.  
  The policeman procured a stretcher; and, with the aid of two or three of the idlers whom the
      accident had collected to the spot, he conveyed Greenwood to Saint Bartholomew's Hospital.  
  Filippo hurried rapidly away the moment he saw his late master removed in the manner
      described; but Gibbet, who, we should observe, was clad in deep mourning, walked by the side
      of the procession.  
  bed, upon a hard mattress stretched on an iron framework, while the house-surgeon
      was setting his leg, which had been broken.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  The room was long and crowded with beds, in each of which there was a patient; for this was
      the Casualty Ward of Saint Bartholomew's Hospital.  
  "And how did this occur, then?" said the house-surgeon to the police-officer, who was
      standing by.  
  "Two gentlemen in a cab, coming along Bridge Street, capsized the poor feller," was the
      answer. "They told me who they was—one a   Sir  , so I suppose a Barrow-Knight—and
      t'other, whose card I've got, is a Honourable and a Major. If they hadn't had handles to their
      names I shouldn't have let 'em go off so quiet as I did, after knocking down a feller-creatur'
      through sheer carelessness."  
  "Well, well," said the surgeon, impatiently: "I suppose you know your duty. The leg is
      set—it's a simple fracture—and there's no danger. Mrs. Jubkins."  
  "Yes, sir," said a nurse, stepping forward.  
  "The new patient must be kept very quiet, Mrs. Jubkins," continued the house-surgeon, behind
      whom stood two assistants, termed dressers, and smelling awfully of rum and tobacco: "and if
      any casualty that's likely to be noisy should come in to-night, don't put it into this ward,
      Mrs. Jubkins. I shall visit this Leg the first thing in the morning, before I see the
      Collar-Bone that came in just now. By the by, Mrs. Jubkins, how's the Eye this evening?"  
  "The Eye, sir, has been calling out for somethink to eat this last three hours, sir,"
      replied the head nurse of the Casualty Ward.  
  "And the Ribs, Mrs. Jubkins, that came in this morning—how do you get on there?"  
  "The Ribs, sir," answered the nurse, somewhat indignantly, "has done nothing but curse and
      swear ever since you left at noon. It's quite horrible, sir."  
  "A bad habit, Mrs. Jubkins—a very bad habit," said the surgeon: "swearing neither mends nor
      helps matters. But damn the fellow—he can't be so very bad, either."  
  "In course not, sir," observed the nurse. "But what am I to do with the Nose, sir?"  
  "Let the Nose put his feet into hot water as usual."  
  The surgeon then felt Greenwood's pulse, gave Mrs. Jubkins a few necessary directions, and
      was about to proceed to the next ward to visit a Brain, which also had a compound fracture of
      the arm, when he suddenly espied Gibbet near the head of the new patient's bed.  
  "Well, my good fellow," said the surgeon; "and what do   you   want?"  
  "Please, sir," answered Gibbet, "I merely came in—I scarce know why—but I saw the
      accident—and I thought that if this poor gentleman would like to send a message to any
      friend——"  
  "Oh! yes, I should indeed!" murmured Greenwood, in a faint and yet earnest tone.  
  "Well—you can settle that matter between you," said the surgeon: "only, my good fellow," he
      added, speaking to Gibbet, "you must not hold the patient too long in conversation."  
  "No, sir—I will not," was the answer.  
  The surgeon, the nurse, and the dressers moved away: the policeman had already taken his
      departure; and Greenwood was therefore enabled to speak without reserve to the kind-hearted
      hump-back who had manifested so generous an interest in his behalf.  
  And now behold Gibbet—the late hangman's son—leaning over the pallet of the once
      fashionable, courted, and influential George Montague Greenwood.  
  "I am so weak—so ill in mind and body," said the latter, in a very faint and low tone, "that
      I cannot devote words to tell you how much I feel your kindness."  
  "Don't mention   that  , sir," interrupted Gibbet. "Inform me as briefly as possible
      how I can serve you."  
  "I will," continued Greenwood. "If you would proceed to a mansion near Lower Holloway,
      called Markham Place——"  
  "Markham Place!" said Gibbet, with a start.  
  "Yes—do you know it?"  
  "It was my intention to call there this very evening. The Prince of Montoni has been my
      greatest benefactor——"  
  "Oh! how fortunate!" murmured Greenwood. "Then you know that there is a young lady named
      Miss Monroe——"  
  "Yes, sir: she lives at the Place, with her father."  
  "And it is to her that I wish a message conveyed," said Greenwood. "Seek an opportunity to
      deliver that message to her alone;—and on no account, I implore you, let the Prince—nor any
      inmate of that house save Miss Monroe—learn what has occurred to me."  
  "Your wishes shall be faithfully complied with. But the message——"  
  "Oh! it is brief," interrupted Greenwood, with a sad smile, which was not, however,
      altogether devoid of bitterness: "tell her—whisper in her ear—that an accident has brought me
      hither, and that I am desirous to see her to-morrow. And—assure her, my good friend," he
      added, after a short pause, "that I am in no danger—for she might be uneasy."  
  "Your instructions shall be fulfilled to the letter," replied Gibbet.  
  Greenwood expressed his thanks; and the hump-back took his departure.  
  
  CHAPTER CCLV.   GIBBET AT MARKHAM PLACE.  
  It was at about eight o'clock in the evening when Gibbet alighted from a cab at the entrance
      of Markham Place.  
  He knocked timidly at the door; but the servant who answered the summons received him with
      respect—for not the veriest mendicant that crawled upon the face of the earth ever met with an
      insulting glance nor a harsh word from any inmate of that dwelling.  
  To Gibbet's question whether "His Highness was at home?" the domestic replied by a courteous
      invitation to enter; and being shown into a parlour—the very same where more than two years
      previously he and his father had one evening supped with our hero—he was shortly joined by the
      Prince.  
  The hump-back, well as he had been enabled to judge of the excellent qualities of Richard,
      was nevertheless surprised at the kind and affable manner in which that exalted personage
      hastened forward to welcome him; and tears of gratitude rolled down the poor creature's face
      as he felt his hands clasped in those of one whom he so profoundly respected and so
      enthusiastically admired.  
  Markham made him sit down, and rang the bell for wine and refreshments: then, noticing that
      the hump-back was in deep mourning, he hastened to question him as to the cause—which he
      nevertheless could well divine.  
  "Alas! my lord," answered Gibbet, "my poor father is no more! And latterly—ever since he
      knew your Highness—he was so affectionate, so kind towards me, that I feel his loss very
      painfully indeed!"  
  "Compose yourself, my good friend," said Richard; "and be solaced with the thought that your
      father has gone to a better world."  
  "It was but last week, my lord," continued Gibbet, drying his tears, "that he was apparently
      in the full enjoyment of health. Your Highness is aware—by means of the letters which you were
      so condescending as to permit me occasionally to address to you—that the business in which my
      father embarked in the country prospered well, and that, under an assumed name, we were
      leading a happy and a comfortable life. But my father was superstitious; and I think he
      frightened himself to death."  
  "Explain yourself, my friend," said Markham: "you interest me considerably."  
  "I should inform your Highness," proceeded John Smithers, "of an incident which occurred
      about two years ago. You recollect the letter that your Highness wrote to acquaint us that you
      had unravelled the mystery which had so long involved the birth of ——of——"  
  "Katherine—call her Katherine," said Richard, kindly. "You shall see her presently—and she
      would be offended with you were you to call her by any other name than that by which you knew
      her for so many years."  
  as death. Horror was depicted on his countenance. I implored him to tell me what
      had disturbed him; and, when he had somewhat recovered his presence of mind, he said in a
      solemn and sepulchral tone—oh! I never shall forget it!—'  John, I have just received a
       second warning. I was in the middle of a deep sleep, when something awoke me with a start;
       and by the dim light of the candle, I beheld the countenance of Harriet Wilmot gazing with a
       sweet and beneficent expression upon me through the opening of the curtains. It lingered for
       a few moments, and then faded away!  '—Vainly did I reason with my father upon the
      subject: vainly did I represent to him that he was the sport of a vision—a fanciful dream. He
      shook his head solemnly, bade me mention the topic no more, and then returned to his room. For
      a few days afterwards he was pensive and thoughtful; but in a short time the impression thus
      strangely made upon him wore away, and he became cheerful and contented as usual."  
  "Ah! now I begin to comprehend the meaning of your observation that your poor father
      frightened himself to death!" exclaimed Richard. "But give me all the details."  
  "I will, my lord. Two years passed since that time, and the subject was never mentioned by
      either of us. Katherine, as your lordship knows, used to write to us frequently; and my father
      was always rejoiced to hear from her and of her great prosperity. We had a feast, my lord, on
      the day when she was united to that good Italian gentleman whom you wrote to tell us she was
      to marry; and I never saw my father in better spirits. Well, my lord, thus time slipped away;
      and all went on smoothly until last Monday week, when we retired to rest somewhat later than
      usual, having had a few friends to pass the evening. It was about two o'clock in the morning,
      and I was in a profound sleep, when some one burst into my room. I started up: my poor father
      fell fainting upon the bed. Assistance was immediately summoned—a surgeon was sent for—and the
      proper remedies were applied. But all in vain! He remained in a kind of torpor two days; and
      early in the morning of the third he seemed to recover a little. He opened his eyes and
      recognised me. A languid smile animated his features: he drew me towards him, and embraced me
      affectionately. Then, before he released me from his arms, he whispered in a faint tone,
       '  John, I am dying—I know I am! The last warning has been given—I have seen her face a
       third time! But how beautiful she looked—so mild, so angelic!  '—With these words his eyes
      closed—a sudden change came over him—and in a few minutes he was no more."  
  "And now, my poor friend," said Markham, wiping away a tear, while Gibbet's eyes were
      streaming, "you are without a companion—without a parent; and the many acts of kindness you
      showed to my sister when she was dependant on your father's bounty, have created for you deep
      sympathies in the hearts of those who will now endeavour to solace you in your present
      affliction."  
  "Oh! my lord, you are goodness itself!" ejaculated Gibbet: "but to-morrow I shall return
      into the country to realize the property which I now possess through my father's death—and
      then—and then, my lord——"  
  "You will come back to London—to this house," said Markham, emphatically.  
  "No, my lord—I shall repair to Liverpool, and thence depart for America," answered Gibbet,
      conquering his emotions and speaking more firmly than he had yet done. "Oh! do not seek to
      turn me from my purpose, my lord—for my happiness depends upon that step."  
  Richard surveyed the hump-back with unfeigned astonishment;—and this sentiment was strangely
      increased, when the poor creature, suddenly yielding to the impulse of his emotions, fell at
      our hero's feet, and catching hold of both his hands, exclaimed, "Oh! my lord, pardon me for
      what I have done! From our childhood I have loved Katherine—loved her devotedly,—first as a
      brother should love a sister—and then, my lord—oh! pardon me—but I knew not that she was by
      birth so high above me—I could not foresee that she would be some day acknowledged as the
      sister of a great Prince! And thus, my lord—if I have offended you by daring at one time to
      love Katherine more tenderly than I ought—you will forgive me—you will forgive me! And believe
      me, my lord, when I solemnly declare that never did I understand my own feelings in respect to
      her—never did I comprehend why her image was so unceasingly present to my imagination—until
      that letter came in which you announced to my father her approaching marriage. Then, my lord,
      then——but—oh! forgive me—pardon me for this boundless insolence—this impious presumption!"  
  Gibbet had spoken with such strange rapidity and such wild—startling—almost frenzied
      energy,—and the revelation his words conveyed had so astonished our hero, that the sudden
      seriousness which his countenance assumed was mistaken by the poor hump-back for severity.  
  But this error was speedily dissipated, when Markham, recovering from his bewilderment,
      raised him from the floor, conducted him to a seat, and, leaning over him, said in the kindest
      possible manner, "My dear friend, you have no forgiveness to ask—I no pardon to accord. In my
      estimation distinctions of birth are as nothing; and if you have loved my sister, it was a
      generous—an honest—a worthy attachment which you nourished. But, alas! my poor friend—that
      attachment is most unfortunate!"  
  "I know it, my lord—I know it!" cried Gibbet, tears streaming from his eyes: "and had I not
      been compelled to avow my secret, as an explanation of the motive which will induce me to seek
      another clime where I may commune with my own heart in the solitude of some forest on the
      verge of civilization—that secret would never have been revealed! And now, my lord," he added,
      hastily wiping his eyes and assuming a calm demeanour, "seek not to deter me from my
      purpose—and let us close our lips upon this too painful subject!"  
  "Be it as you will, my good friend," said the Prince. "But for this night, at all events,
      you will make my house your home."  
  Gibbet gave a reluctant consent; and, when his feelings were entirely calmed, Richard
      introduced him into the drawing-room where Isabella, Katherine and her husband, Ellen and Mr.
      Monroe were seated.  
  And here the reader may exclaim, "What! present the hump-back orphan of the late hangman to
      that elegant, refined, and accomplished Princess whose father sits upon a throne!"  
  poor creature was deformed—an orphan—with what many might term a stigma on his
      parentage—and so lonely and desolate in the world, that Richard Markham took him by the hand,
      and introduced him into the bosom of his domesticity. But the Prince also knew that the
      unfortunate hump-back possessed a heart that might have done honour to a monarch; and our hero
      looked not to personal appearance—nor to birth—nor to fortune—nor to name,—but to the
      qualities of the mind!  
  And Isabella, who had heard all the previous history of those with whom Katherine had passed
      so many years of her life, welcomed that poor deformed creature even as her husband had
      welcomed him,—welcomed him, too, the more kindly because he was so deformed!  
  But we shall not dwell upon this scene:—we shall leave our readers to picture to themselves
      the delight of Katherine at beholding him whom she had long believed to be her cousin, and who
      was ever ready to catch the stripes that were destined for her,—her sorrow when she heard of
      the death of the hump-back's father,—and the happiness experienced by Gibbet himself at
      passing an evening in the society of the inmates of Markham Place.  
  Accident enabled him to obtain a few moments' conversation aside with Ellen; and to her he
      broke in as few words but in as delicate a manner as possible, the sad news which he had to
      communicate relative to Greenwood.  
  The young lady suppressed her grief as well as she could; but she shortly afterwards pleaded
      indisposition and retired early to her room—there to ponder and weep, without fear of
      interruption, over the fallen fortunes of her husband!  
  On the following morning, Gibbet—true to his resolve, which our hero no longer attempted to
      shake—took his departure from Markham Place, laden with the presents which had been forced
      upon him, and followed by the kindest wishes of those good friends whom he left behind.  
  
  CHAPTER CCLVI.   ELIZA SYDNEY AND ELLEN.—THE HOSPITAL.  
  Eliza Sydney had just sate down to breakfast, when a cab drove hastily up to the door of the
      villa, and Ellen alighted from the vehicle.  
  The moment she entered the parlour, Eliza advanced to meet her, saying, "My dearest friend,
      I can divine the cause of this early visit;—and, indeed, had you not come to me, it was my
      intention to have called upon you without delay."  
  Ellen heard these remarks with unfeigned surprise.  
  "Sit down, and compose yourself," continued Eliza, "while I explain to you certain matters
      which it is now proper that you should know."  
  "Heaven grant that you have no evil tidings to communicate!" exclaimed Ellen, taking a chair
      near her friend, upon whose countenance she turned a look of mingled curiosity and
      suspense.  
  "Be not alarmed, dear Ellen," answered Eliza: "my object is to serve and befriend you—for I
      know that at this moment you require a friend!"  
  "Oh! indeed I do," cried Ellen, bursting into tears. "But is it possible that you are
      acquainted with——"  
  "With all your history, my dear friend," interrupted Eliza.  
  "  All   my history!" ejaculated Ellen.  
  "Yes—all. But let me not keep you in suspense. In a few words let me assure you that there
      is no important event of your life unknown to me."  
  "Then, my dearest friend," cried Ellen, throwing herself into Eliza's arms, "you are aware
      that my husband is lying in a common hospital—and that it breaks my heart to think of the
      depth into which he has fallen from a position once elevated and proud!"  
  "Yes," answered Eliza, returning the embrace of friendship; "I learnt that sad event last
      evening—a few hours after it occurred; and hence my intention to visit you this morning. But I
      am better pleased that you should have come hither—because we can converse at our ease. You
      must know, my dear friend, that a few years ago I received some wrong at the hands of him who
      has now every claim upon the sympathy of the charitable heart."  
  "You speak of my husband, Eliza?" cried Ellen. "Were   you   also wronged by him? Oh!
      how many, alas! can tell the same tale!"  
  "He attempted to wrong me, Ellen—but did not succeed," answered Eliza, emphatically: "twice
      he sought to ruin me—and twice Providence interposed to save me. Pardon me, if I mention these
      facts; but they are necessary to justify my subsequent conduct in respect to him."  
  "Oh! ask me not to pardon aught that you may do or may have done!" ejaculated Ellen: "for
      your goodness of heart is an unquestionable guarantee for the propriety of your actions."  
  "You flatter me, my dear friend," said Eliza; "and yet God knows how pure have been my
      intentions through life! Let us not, however, waste time by unnecessary comment: listen rather
      while I state a few facts which need be concealed from you no longer. Aware, then, that he who
      has so long passed by the name of George Montague Greenwood——"  
  "Ah!" cried Ellen, with a start: "you know   that   also?"  
  "Have patience—and you shall soon learn the extent of my information upon this subject,"
      said Eliza. "I was about to inform you that a knowledge of the character of him whom we must
      still call George Greenwood, gave me the idea of adopting some means to check, if not
      altogether to counteract, those schemes by which he sought alike to enrich himself
      dishonourably and to gratify his thirst after illicit pleasure. During the first year of my
      residence in Castelcicala I sent over a faithful agent to enter, if possible, the service of
      Mr. Greenwood. He succeeded, and——"  
  "Filippo Dorsenni!" exclaimed Ellen, a light breaking in upon her mind: "Oh now I comprehend
      it all!"  
  "And are you angry with me for having thus placed a spy upon the actions of your husband?"
      inquired Eliza, in a sweet tone of conciliation.  
  "Oh! no—no," cried Ellen: "on the contrary, I rejoice! For doubtless you have saved him from
      the commission of many misdeeds!"  
  "I have indeed, Ellen," was the reply; "and amongst them may be reckoned your escape from
      his snares, when he had you carried away to his house in the country."  
  "Yes—that escape was effected by the aid of Filippo," said Ellen; "and the same
      generous man also assisted me to save the life of Richard on that terrible night when his
      enemies sought to murder him near Globe Town."  
  "Well, then, my dear friend," observed Eliza, "you see that the presence of Filippo in
      England effected much good. I may also mention to you the fact that when Richard accompanied
      General Grachia's expeditionary force to Castelcicala, I was forewarned of the intended
      invasion by means of a letter from Filippo: and that letter enjoined me to save the life of
      him who has since obtained so distinguished a renown. Filippo had heard you speak in such
      glowing colours of Richard's generous nature and noble disposition, that he was induced to
      implore me to adopt measures so that not a hair of his head might be injured. And, oh! when I
      consider all that has occurred, I cannot for one moment regret that intervention on my part
      which saved our friend in order to fulfil such glorious destinies!"  
  "But how was it, my dearest Eliza," asked Ellen, "that you discovered those secrets which so
      especially regard   me  ?"  
  "In one word," replied the royal widow, "Filippo overheard that scene which occurred between
      yourself and Greenwood when you restored him the pocket-book that you had found; and on that
      occasion you called him by a name which was not   George  !"  
  "Ah! I remember—yes, I remember!" cried Ellen, recalling to mind the details of that
      memorable meeting to which Eliza Sydney alluded.  
  "Thus Filippo learnt a great secret," continued the royal widow; "and in due time it was
      communicated to me, by whom it has been retained inviolate until now. Nor should I have ever
      touched upon the topic with you, had not this accident which has occurred to your husband
      rendered it necessary for me to show you that while I am prepared to assist you in aught that
      may concern his welfare, I am only aiding the virtuous intentions of a wife towards him whom
      she has sworn at the altar to love and reverence."  
  Ellen again threw herself into the arms of the generous-hearted widow, upon whose bosom she
      poured forth tears of the most profound gratitude.  
  "And now," said Eliza, "can you tell me in which manner I can serve you—or rather your
      husband?"  
  "My first and most anxious wish," returned Ellen, "is that he should be removed, as soon as
      possible, to some place where tranquillity and ease may await him. Sincerely—sincerely do I
      hope that his heart may have been touched by recent misfortunes——"  
  "Yes—and by the contemplation, even from a distance, of that excellent example which the
      character of Richard affords," added Eliza, emphatically.  
  "And yet," continued Ellen, mournfully, "I know his proud disposition so well, that he will
      not permit his secret to be revealed one minute before the appointed time: he will not allow
      himself to be conveyed to that place where he would be received with so much heart-felt
      joy!"  
  "This is your conviction?" said Eliza, interrogatively.  
  "My firm conviction," answered Ellen.  
  "Then listen to my proposal," exclaimed the widow, after a brief pause. "Filippo shall be
      instructed to hire some neatly furnished house in the neighbourhood of Islington; and thither
      may your husband be removed so soon as the medical attendants at the hospital will permit. It
      is not necessary for him to know that any living soul save yourself, Ellen, has interfered to
      procure him those comforts which he shall enjoy, and to furnish which my purse shall supply
      you with ample means."  
  "Dearest friend," exclaimed Ellen, "it was your kind counsel that I came to solicit—and you
      have afforded me the advice most suitable to my own wishes. But, thanks to the generosity of
      Richard towards my father and myself, I possess sufficient resources to ensure every comfort
      to my husband. And, oh! if he will but consent to this project, I can see him often—yes,
      daily—and under my care he will speedily recover!"  
  "Then delay not in repairing to the hospital to visit and console him," said Eliza, "and
      Filippo, whom I expect to call presently, shall this very day seek a comfortable abode to
      receive your husband when his removal may be effected with safety."  
  Ellen expressed the deepest gratitude to her friend for the kind interest thus manifested in
      behalf of herself and her husband; and, having taken an affectionate leave of the royal widow,
      she repaired to Saint Bartholomew's Hospital.  
  The clock of the establishment was striking eleven when Ellen alighted from the cab at the
      entrance in Duke Street; and, having inquired her way to the Casualty Ward, she crossed the
      courtyard towards the department of the building where her husband lay.  
  Ascending a wide staircase, she reached a landing, where she accosted a nurse who was
      passing from one room to another at the moment.  
  Ellen intimated her request to see the gentleman who was brought in with a broken leg on the
      preceding afternoon.  
  "Well, ma'am," answered the nurse, "you couldn't possibly have applied to a better person;
      for I'm at the head of that ward, and I shall be most happy to obleege you. But surely a
      charming young lady like you will be afeard to go into a place where there's a many male
      inwalids all in bed?"  
  "The gentleman to whom the accident has happened, is very dear to me," said Ellen, in a low
      tone, and with tears trickling down her cheeks.  
  "Ah! poor dear thing—his sister, may be?" observed Mrs. Jubkins.  
  "Yes—I am his sister," replied Ellen, eagerly catching at the hint with which the curiosity
      of the woman furnished her.  
  "Then I'm sure, my pretty dear," said the nurse, "there's no harm in seeing your brother.
      But stay—just step into this room for a moment—there's only one old woman in it,—while I go
      into the male Casualty and see that every thing's proper and decent to receive such a sweet
      creatur' as you are."  
  Thus speaking, Mrs. Jubkins threw open the door of a small room, into which she showed
      Ellen, who availed herself of that opportunity to slip a guinea into her hand.  
  Mrs. Jubkins expressed her thanks by a nod, and hurried away with the assurance that she
      should not be many minutes absent.  
  surveyed, with a rapid glance, the room in which she now found herself.  
  It was small, but exquisitely clean and well ventilated. There were four beds in the place,
      only one of which was occupied.  
  Obeying a mechanical impulse, rather than any sentiment of curiosity, Ellen glanced towards
      that couch which was tenanted by an invalid; but she started with mingled surprise and horror
      as her own bright eyes encountered the glassy ones that stared at her from the pillow.  
  For a moment she averted her head as if from some loathsome spectacle; but again she looked
      towards the bed, to satisfy herself whether the suspicion which had struck her were correct or
      not.  
  Yes—that idea was indeed well-founded; for there—in a dying state, with her hideous
      countenance rendered ghastly by disease—lay the old hag of Golden Lane!  
  A faint attempt at a smile relaxed the rigid expression of the harridan's death-like face,
      as she recognised Ellen; and her toothless jaws moved for a moment as if she were endeavouring
      to speak:—but she evidently had not strength to utter a word.  
  All on a sudden the boundless aversion which the young lady entertained towards the wretch,
      became changed into a sentiment of deep commiseration; and Ellen exclaimed involuntarily, "Oh!
      it is terrible to die thus—in a hospital—and without a friend!"  
  The bed shook as if with a convulsive shudder on the part of the hag, whose countenance,
      upturned towards Ellen, wore an expression which—intelligible amidst all the ghastly ugliness
      of that face—seemed to say, "Is it possible that   you   can feel pity for
        me  ?"  
  Ellen understood what was passing in the old woman's mind at the moment; and, advancing
      nearer to the couch, she said in a tone tremulous with emotions, "If you seek forgiveness at
      my hands for any injury which your pernicious counsels and your fatal aid ever did me, I
      accord it—Oh! God knows how willingly I accord it! For, though after my fall I long remained
      callous to a sense of virtue, and acknowledged only the fear of shame as the motive for
      avoiding farther frailty, yet since I became a wife—for I   am   a wife," she added
      proudly,—"holier and better thoughts have taken up their abode in my soul; and good examples
      have restored my mind to its former purity! Thus, then, I can forgive thee with sincerity—for
      the injuries and wrongs I have endured through thy counsels, are past and gone!"  
  At that moment the door opened, and Mrs. Jubkins returned to the room.  
  Ellen cast another glance of forgiveness upon the hag and hurried into the passage.  
  "What ails that old woman?" she asked, in a low tone, when the door had closed behind
      herself and the nurse.  
  "It seems, by all I can hear, Miss," replied the hospital nurse, "that the old woman had
      saved up a little money; and as she lived in a low neighbourhood, I 'spose it got wind amongst
      the thieves and housebreakers. At all events a burglar broke into her place one night, about a
      week ago; and because she resisted, he beat her in such a cruel way that all her ribs was
      broke and one of her thighs fractured—so I 'spose he must have thrown her down and jumped on
      her. The rascal got clean off with all the money she had; and a policeman going his rounds,
      saw that the house where she lived had been broken open. He went in, and found the old
      creatur' nearly dead. She was brought here; and when she had recovered a little, she mumbled a
      few words, telling just what I've now told you. Oh! yes," added the nurse, recollecting
      herself, "and she also said who the thief was; for when questioned about that point, she was
      just able to whisper a dreadful name—so dreadful that it haunts me in my dreams."  
  "What was that name which sounded so terrible?" asked Ellen, with some degree of
      curiosity.  
  "  The Resurrection Man  ," replied the nurse, shuddering visibly. "And no sooner had
      the old woman said those shocking words, than she lost her voice altogether, and has never had
      the use of it since. We put her into that room to keep her quiet; but she can't live out the
      week—and her sufferings at times are quite horrible."  
  As she uttered these words Mrs. Jubkins opened a door at the end of the passage, and
      conducted Ellen into the room where her husband was lying.  
  For a moment the young lady recoiled from the appearance of that large apartment, filled
      with beds in which there lay pillowed so many ghastly faces; but this emotion was as
      evanescent as the most rapid flash of lightning.  
  And now, firm in her purpose to console and solace him whom she had taught herself to love,
      she followed the nurse towards the bed where the patient lay,—looking neither to the right nor
      to the left as she proceeded thither.  
  Greenwood's countenance was very pale; but the instant the lovely features of his wife burst
      upon his view, his eyes were lighted up with an expression of joy such as she had never seen
      them wear before, and the glow of which appeared to penetrate with a sensation of ineffable
      bliss into the very profundities of her soul.  
  "Ellen, this is very kind of you," said Greenwood, tears starting on his long silken lashes,
      as he pressed her hand warmly in his own.  
  "Do not use the word   kind  , my dearest husband," whispered Ellen: "in coming hither
      I not only perform a duty—but should also fulfil it cheerfully, were it not for the sad
      occurrence which caused the visit."  
  "Be not alarmed, Ellen," murmured Greenwood: "there is no danger—a temporary inconvenience
      only! And yet," he added, after a brief pause, "to me it is particularly galling just at the
      very time when I was struggling so hard—so very hard—to build up my fallen fortunes, and
      prepare——"  
  "Oh! do not grieve on that head!" whispered Ellen: "abandon, I implore you, those ambitious
      dreams—those lofty aspirations which have only led you astray! Do you suppose that, were you
      to acquire an amount of wealth far greater than that which blesses   him  , he would
      welcome you with one single smile the more joyous—with one single emotion the more blissful?
      Oh! no—far from it! And believe me when I assert my conviction that it would be his pride to
      place you with his own hand, and by means of his own resources, in a position to enable you to
      retrieve the past——"  
  "Ellen, speak not thus!" said Greenwood, impatiently.  
  "Well, my dearest husband, I will not urge the topic," answered the beautiful
      young woman, smiling with a plaintive and melancholy sweetness as she leant over his couch.
      "But you will permit me to implore that when you are enabled to leave this place, you will
      suffer yourself to be conveyed to a dwelling which I—your own wife—will provide for you, and
      where I shall be enabled to visit you every day—as often, indeed, as will give you pleasure?
      And then—oh! then we shall be happy together—and you can prepare your mind to encounter that
      day which, I fear, you now look upon to be one of trial, but which I must tutor you to
      anticipate as one of joy and pleasure as yet unknown."  
  Greenwood made no answer; but he meditated profoundly upon those loving words and touching
      assurances that his beauteous wife breathed in his ear.  
  "Yes," continued Ellen, "you will not refuse my prayer! This very day will I seek a
      comfortable abode—in the northern part of Islington, if possible—so that I may soon be with
      you every day. For I am possessed of ample resources to accomplish all that I propose; and you
      know, dearest husband, that every thing which I can call my own is lawfully yours. You
      smile—oh! now I thank you, because you listen to me with attention; and I thank God also,
      because he has at length directed your heart towards me, who am your wife, and who will ever,
      ever love you—dearly love you!"  
  "Ellen," murmured Greenwood, pressing her hand to his lips, "I should be a monster were I to
      refuse you any thing which you now demand of me; and, oh! believe me—I am not so bad as
         that  !"  
  Sweet Ellen, thou hast conquered the obduracy of that heart which was so long the abode of
      selfishness and pride;—thou hast subdued the stubborn soul of that haughty and ambitious
      man:—thine amiability has triumphed over his worldliness;—and thou hast thy crowning reward in
      the tears which now moisten his pillow, and in the affectionate glances which are upturned
      towards thee!  
  And Ellen departed from the hospital where her angelic influence had wrought so marvellous a
      change,—departed with a bosom cherishing fond hopes and delicious reveries of happiness to
      come.  
  In the course of that very day Filippo engaged a house in the northern part of Islington;
      and Ellen superintended, with a joyful heart, the preparations that were made during the
      ensuing week to render the dwelling as comfortable as possible.  
  At length she had the pleasure,—nay, more than pleasure—the ineffable satisfaction of
      welcoming her husband to that abode which, if not so splendid nor so spacious as the mansion
      he had once occupied in Spring Gardens, was at least a most grateful change after the cold and
      cheerless aspect of a hospital.  
  
  CHAPTER CCLVII.   THE REVENGE.  
  It was about eleven o'clock in the night of the first Saturday of June, that the
      Resurrection Man—the terrible Anthony Tidkins—issued from the dwelling of Mr. Banks, the
      undertaker in Globe Lane, Globe Town.  
  Mr. Banks followed him to the threshold, and, ere he bade him good night, said, as he
      retained him by the sleeve, "And so you are determined to go back to the old crib?"  
  "Yes—to be sure I am," returned Tidkins. "I've been looking after that scoundrel Crankey Jem
      for the last two years, without even being able so much as to hear of him. The Bully Grand has
      set all his Forty Thieves to work for me; and still not a trace—not a sign of the infernal
      villain!"  
  "Well," observed Banks, "it does look as if the cussed wessel had made his-self scarce to
      some foreign part, where it's to be hoped he's dead, buried, and resurrectionised by this
      time."  
  "Or else he's living like a fighting-cock on all the tin he robbed me of," exclaimed
      Tidkins, with a savage growl. "But I'm sure he's not in London; and so I don't see any reason
      to prevent me from going back to my old crib. I shall feel happy again there. It's now two
      years and better since I left it—and I'm sick of doing nothing but hunt after a chap that's
      perhaps thousands of miles off."  
  "And all that time, you see," said Banks, "you've been doing no good for yourself or your
      friends; and if it wasn't for them blessed coffins on economic principles, which turn me in a
      decent penny, I'm sure I don't know what would have become of me and my family."  
  "You forget the swag we got from the old woman in Golden Lane," whispered Tidkins,
      impatiently. "Didn't I give you a fair half, although you never entered the place, but only
      kept watch outside?"  
  "Yes—yes," said Mr. Banks; "I know you treated me very well, Tony—as you've always done. But
      I'm sorry you used the wicked old creetur as you did."  
  "Why did she resist, then, damn her!" growled the Resurrection Man.  
  "Ah! well-a-day," moaned the hypocritical undertaker: "she's a blessed defunct now—a
      wenerable old carkiss—and all packed up nice and cozy in a hospital coffin too! But they can't
      get up them coffins as well as me: I can beat 'em all at that work—'cause its the economic
      principles as does it."  
  "Hold your stupid tongue, you infernal old fool!" muttered Tidkins; "and get yourself to bed
      at once, so that you may be up early in the morning and come to me by eight o'clock."  
  "You don't mean to do what you was telling me just now?" said Banks, earnestly. "Depend upon
      it, he'll prove too much for you."  
  "Not he!" exclaimed Tidkins. "I've a long—long score to settle up with him; and if he has
      neither seen nor heard of me for the last two years, it was only because I wanted to punish
      Crankey Jem first."  
  "And now that you can't find that cussed indiwidual," said Banks, "you mean to have a go in
      earnest against the Prince?"  
  "I do," answered Tidkins, with an abruptness which was in itself expressive of demoniac
      ferocity. 'You come to me to-morrow morning; and see if I won't invent some scheme that shall
      put Richard Markham in my power. I tell you what it is, Banks," added the Resurrection Man, in
      a hoarse—hollow whisper, "I hate that fellow to a degree I cannot explain; and depend upon it,
      he shall gnash his teeth in one of the dark cells yonder before he's a week older."  
  "And what good will that do you?" asked the undertaker.  
  "What good!" repeated Tidkins, scornfully: then, after a short pause, he turned
      towards Banks, and said in a low voice, "We'll make him pay an immense sum for his ransom—a
      sum that shall enrich us both, Ned: and then——"  
  "And then?" murmured Banks, interrogatively.  
  "And then—when I've got all I can from him," replied Tidkins, "  I'll murder
      him!  "  
  With these words—uttered in a tone of terrible ferocity—the Resurrection Man hastened away
      from the door of the undertaker's dwelling.  
  The sky was overcast with dark clouds of stormy menace: the night was dark; and big drops of
      rain began to patter down, as Tidkins hurried along the streets leading towards his own
      abode—that abode which he was now on the point of revisiting after an absence of two
      years!  
  At length he reached the house; and though he stopped for a few minutes to examine its
      outward appearance from the middle of the street, the night was so dark that he could not
      distinguish whether its aspect had undergone any change.  
  Taking from his pocket the door-key, which he had carefully retained ever since he abandoned
      the place after the discovery of the loss of his treasure, he soon effected an entrance into
      the house.  
  Having closed the door, he immediately lighted a lantern which he had brought with him; and
      then, holding it high above his head, he hastily scrutinized the walls, the stairs, and as
      much of the landing above the precipitate steps, as his range of vision could embrace.  
  There was not the least indication of the presence of intruders: the dust had accumulated
      upon the stairs, undisturbed by the print of footsteps; and the damp had covered the walls
      with a white mildew.  
  Tidkins was satisfied with this scrutiny, and ascended to the first-floor rooms, the doors
      of which were closed—as if they had never been opened during his absence of two years.  
  The interior appearance of the two chambers was just the same as when he was last there—save
      in respect to the ravages of the damp, the accumulation of the dust, and the effects of the
      rain which had forced its way through the roof.  
  "Well, nothing has been disturbed up here—that's certain enough," said Tidkins to himself.
      "Now for a survey of the vaults."  
  Taking from a shelf the bunch of skeleton-keys, which had suffered grievously from the damp,
      the Resurrection Man descended the stairs, issued forth into the street, and turned up the
      alley running along the side of the house.  
  His first attempt to open the door in that alley was unsuccessful, there being evidently
      some impediment in the lock: but a moment's reflection reminded him that he himself had broken
      a key in the lock, ere he had quitted the premises at the end of May, 1841.  
  Nearly ten minutes were occupied in picking the lock, which was sadly rusted; but at length
      this task was accomplished—and the Resurrection Man entered the ground-floor of his abode.  
  The condition in which he had found the lock of the door in the alley would have been a
      sufficient proof, in the estimation of any less crafty individual, that no intrusive footstep
      had disturbed that department of the dwelling: but Tidkins was resolved to assure himself on
      all points relative to the propriety of again entrusting his safety to that abode.  
  "I think it's all right," he muttered, holding up his lantern, and glancing around with keen
      looks. "Still the lock might have been picked since I was here last, and another key purposely
      broken in it to stave off suspicion. At any rate, it is better to examine every nook and
      corner of the whole place—and so I will!"  
  He entered the front room on the ground-floor: the resurrection tools and house-breaking
      implements, which were piled up in that chamber, had not been disturbed. Huge black cob-webs,
      dense as filthy rags, were suspended from mattock to spade, and from crow-bar to long flexible
      iron rod.  
  Tidkins turned with an air of satisfaction into the back room, where the dust lay thick upon
      the floor, and the walls were green with damp.  
  "Yes—it   is   all right!" he exclaimed, joyfully: "no one has been here during my
      absence. I suppose that villain Jem Cuffin was content with all the gold and jewels he got,
      and took no farther steps to molest me. But, by Satan! if ever I clap my eyes on him
      again!"—and the Resurrection Man ground his teeth furiously together. "Well," he continued,
      speaking aloud to himself in a musing strain, "it's a blessing to be able to come back and
      settle in the old crib! There's no place in London like it: the house in Chick Lane is nothing
      to it. And now that I   have   returned," he added, his hideous countenance becoming
      ominously dark and appallingly threatening, as the glare of the lantern fell upon it,—"one of
      these deep, cold, cheerless dungeons shall soon become the abode of Richard Markham!"  
  As he uttered these last words in a loud, measured, and savage voice, the Resurrection Man
      raised the stone-trap, and descended into the subterranean.  
  The detestable monster gloated in anticipation upon the horrible revenge which he meditated;
      and as he now trod the damp pavement of the vaulted passage, he glanced first at the four
      doors on the right, then at the four doors on the left, as if he were undecided in which
      dungeon to immure his intended victim.  
  At length he stopped before one of the doors, exclaiming, "Ah! this must be the cell! It's
      the one, as I have been told, where so many maniacs dashed their brains out against the wall,
      when this place was used as an asylum—long before my time."  
  Thus musing, Tidkins entered the cell, holding the lantern high up so as to embrace at a
      glance all the gloomy horrors of its aspect.  
  "Yes—yes!" he muttered to himself: "this is the one for Richard Markham! All that he has
      ever done to me shall soon be fearfully visited on his own head! Ah, ah! we shall see whether
      his high rank—his boasted virtues—his immense influence—and his glorious name can mitigate one
      pang of all the sufferings that he must here endure! Yes," repeated Tidkins, a fiendish smile
      relaxing his stern countenance,—"  this   is the dungeon for Richard Markham!"  
  "No—it is   thine  !" thundered a voice; and at the same moment the door of the cell
      closed violently upon the Resurrection Man.  
  with all his strength against the massive door;—but the huge bolt on the outside
      was shot into its iron socket too rapidly to permit that desperate effort to prove of the
      least avail.  
  unit="graphic"/ 
  Then a cry of mingled rage and despair burst from the breast of the Resurrection Man,—a cry
      resembling that of the wolf when struck by the bullet of the hunter's carbine!  
  "The hour of vengeance is come at last!" exclaimed Crankey Jem, as he lighted the candle in
      a small lantern which he took from his pocket. "There shall you remain, Tidkins—to perish by
      starvation—to die by inches—to feel the approach of Death by means of such slow tortures that
      you will curse the day which saw your birth!"  
  "Jem, do not say all that!" cried the Resurrection Man, from the interior of the dungeon.
      "You would not be so cruel? Let me out—and we will be friends."  
  "Never!" ejaculated Cuffin. "What! have I hunted after you—dogged you—watched you—then lost
      sight of you for two years—now found you out again—at length got you into my power—and all
      this for nothing?"  
  "Well, Jem—I know that I used you badly," said the Resurrection Man, in an imploring tone:
      "but forgive me—pray forgive me! Surely you were sufficiently avenged by plundering me of my
      treasure—my hoarded gold—my casket of jewels?"  
  "Miserable wretch!" cried Crankey Jem, in a tone of deep disgust: "do not imagine that I
      took your gold and your jewels to enrich myself. No: had I been starving, I would not have
      purchased a morsel of bread by means of their aid! Two hours after I had become possessed of
      your treasure, I consigned it all—yes, all—gold and jewels—to the bed of the Thames!"  
  "Then are you not sufficiently avenged?" demanded Tidkins, in a voice denoting how fiercely
      rage was struggling with despair in his breast.  
  "Your death, amidst lingering tortures, will alone satisfy me!" returned Crankey Jem.
      "Monster that you are, you shall meet the fate which you had reserved for an excellent
      nobleman whose virtues are as numerous as your crimes!"  
  "What good will my death do you, Jem?" cried Tidkins, his tone now characterised only by an
      expression of deep—intense—harrowing despair.  
  "What good would the death of Richard Markham have done   you  ?" demanded
      James Cuffin. "Ah! you cannot answer that question! Of what advantage is your cunning now? But
      listen to me, while I tell you how I have succeeded in over-reaching you at last. One
      night—more than two years ago—I was watching for you in the street. I had found out your
      den—and I was waiting your return, to plunge my dagger into your breast. But when you did come
      home that night, you was not alone. Another man was with you; and a woman, blindfolded, was
      being dragged between you up the alley. I watched—you and the man soon afterwards re-appeared;
      but the woman was not with you. Then I knew that she was a prisoner, or had been murdered; and
      I thought that if I could place you in the hands of justice, with the certainty of sending you
      to the scaffold, my revenge would be more complete. But my plan was spoilt by the silly affair
      of young Holford; for I was locked up in prison on account of that business. But I got my
      liberty at last; and that very same night I returned to this house. I knew that you had been
      arrested and was in Coldbath Fields; and so I resolved to examine the entire premises. By
      means of skeleton keys I obtained an easy entrance into the lower part of the house; and,
      after a little careful search, I discovered the secret of the trap-door. I visited the cells;
      but the woman was not in any of them. And now you know how I came to discover the mysteries of
      your den, Tidkins; and you can guess how at another visit I found the hiding-place of your
      treasure."  
  "Jem, one word!" cried the Resurrection Man, in a hoarse—almost hollow tone. "You have got
      me in your power—do you mean to put your dreadful threat into execution?"  
  "No persuasion on earth can change my mind!" returned the avenger, in a terrible voice.
      "Hark! this is a proof of my determination!"  
  A dead silence prevailed in the subterranean for two or three minutes; and then that solemn
      stillness was broken by the sounds of a hammer, falling with heavy and measured cadence upon
      the head of a large nail.  
  "Devil!" roared the Resurrection Man, from the interior of the cell.  
  Crankey Jem was nailing up the door!  
  It must be supposed that this appalling conviction worked the mind of the immured victim up
      to a pitch of madness; for he now threw himself against the door with a fury that made it
      crack upon its hinges—massive and studded with iron nails though it were!  
  But Crankey Jem pursued his awful task; and as nail after nail was driven in, the more
      demoniac became the feelings of his triumph.  
  Tidkins continued to rush against the door, marking the intervals of these powerful but
      desperate attempts to burst from his living tomb, with wild cries and savage howls such as
      Cuffin had never before heard come from the breast of a human being.  
  At length the last nail was driven in; and then the struggles against the door ceased.  
  "Now you can understand that I am determined!" cried the avenger. "And here shall I remain
      until all is over with you, Tidkins. No! I shall now and then steal out for short intervals at
      a time, to procure food—food to sustain   me  , while   you   are starving in your
      coffin!"  
  "Infernal wretch!" shouted Tidkins: "you are mistaken! I will not die by starvation, if die
      I must. I have matches with me—and in a moment I can blow the entire house—aye, and half the
      street along with it—into the air!"  
  "You will not frighten me, Tidkins," said Crankey Jem, in a cool and taunting tone.  
  "Damnation!" thundered the Resurrection Man, chafing against the door like a maddened hyena
      in its cage: "will neither prayers nor threats move you? Then must I do my worst!"  
  Crankey Jem heard him stride across the dungeon; but still the avenger remained at his
      post,—leaning against the door, and greedily drinking in each groan—each curse—each
      execration—and each howl, that marked the intense anguish endured by the Resurrection Man.  
  Presently James Cuffin heard the sharp sound of a match as it was drawn rapidly along the
      wall.  
  He shuddered—but moved not.  
  Solemn was the silence which now prevailed for a few moments: at length an explosion—low and
      subdued, as of a small quantity of gunpowder—took place in the cell.  
  But it was immediately followed with a terrific cry of agony; and the Resurrection Man fell
      heavily against the door.  
  "My eyes! my eyes!" he exclaimed, in a tone indicative of acute pain: "O God! I am
      blinded!"  
  "Sight would be of no use in that dark dungeon," said Crankey Jem, with inhuman obduracy of
      heart towards his victim.  
  "Are you not satisfied now, demon—devil—fiend!" almost shrieked the Resurrection Man. "The
      powder has blinded me, I say!"  
  "It was damp, and only exploded partially," said the avenger. "Try again!"  
  "Wretch!" exclaimed Tidkins; and James Cuffin heard him dash himself upon the paved floor of
      the cell, groaning horribly.  
  Ten days afterwards, Crankey Jem set to work to open the door of the dungeon.  
  This was no easy task; inasmuch as the nails which he had driven in were strong, and had
      caught a firm hold of the wood.  
  But at length—after two hours' toil—the avenger succeeded in forcing an entrance into the
      cell.  
  He knew that he incurred no danger by this step: for, during that interval of ten days, he
      had scarcely ever quitted his post outside the door of the dungeon;—and there had he remained,
      regaling his ears with the delicious music formed by the groans—the prayers—the screams—the
      shrieks—the ravings—and the curses of his victim.  
  At length those appalling indications of a lingering—slow—agonising death,—the death of
      famine,—grew fainter and fainter; and in the middle of the ninth night they ceased
      altogether.  
  Therefore was it that on the morning of the tenth day, the avenger hesitated not to open the
      door of the dungeon.  
  And what a spectacle met his view when he entered that cell!  
  The yellow glare of his lantern fell upon the pale, emaciated, hideous countenance of the
      Resurrection Man, who lay on his back upon the cold, damp pavement—a stark and rigid
      corse!  
  Crankey Jem stooped over the body, and examined the face with a satisfaction which he did
      not attempt to subdue.  
  The eyes had been literally burnt in their sockets; and it was true that the
      Resurrection Man was blinded, in the first hour of his terrible imprisonment, by the explosion
      of the gunpowder in an iron pipe running along the wall of the dungeon!  
  The damp had, however, rendered that explosion only partial: had the train properly ignited,
      the entire dwelling would have been blown into the air.  
  A few hours afterwards, the following letter was delivered at Markham Place by the
      postman:—  
  
  "Your mortal enemy, my lord, is no more. My vengeance has overtaken him at last. Anthony
       Tidkins has died a horrible death:—had he lived, you would have become his victim.  
  
  "JAMES CUFFIN."  
    
  
  CHAPTER CCLVIII.   THE APPOINTMENT KEPT.  
  It was the 10th of July, 1843.  
  The bell upon the roof of Markham Place had just proclaimed the hour of nine, and the
      morning was as bright and beautiful as the cheerful sun, the cloudless sky, and the gentle
      breeze could render a summer-day,—when a party of eight persons ascended the hill on which
      stood the two trees.  
  Those emblems of the fraternal affection of early years were green, verdant, and
      flourishing; and on the one which had been planted by the hands of the long-lost brother, were
      the following inscriptions:—  
  
  Eugene.  
   Dec. 25, 1836. Eugene.  
   May 17th, 1838. Eugene.  
   March 6, 1841. Eugene.  
   July 1st, 1843.  
  
  This last inscription, as the reader will perceive, had only been very recently added; and
      Richard regarded it as a promise—a pledge—a solemn sign that the appointment would be
      kept.  
  It was nine o'clock in the evening when the parting between the brothers took place in the
      year 1831; and, although it was impossible to determine at what hour of the day on which the
      twelve years expired, Eugene would return, nevertheless Richard, judging by his own anxiety to
      clasp a brother in his arms, felt certain that this brother would not delay the moment that
      was to re-unite them.  
  Accordingly, at nine o'clock on the morning of the 10th of July, 1843, the Prince, repaired
      to the eminence on which he hoped—oh! how fondly hoped—full soon to welcome the long-lost
      Eugene.  
  His seven companions were the Princess Isabella, Ellen, Mr. Monroe, Katherine, Mario
      Bazzano, Eliza Sydney, and the faithful Whittingham.  
  Richard could not conceal a certain nervous suspense under which he laboured; for although
      he felt assured of Eugene's appearance, yet so long a period had elapsed since they had
      parted, and so many vicissitudes might have occurred during the interval, that he trembled
      lest the meeting should be characterised by circumstances which would give his brother
      pain.  
  The Princess Isabella, naturally anxious to become acquainted with her brother-in-law, also
      looked forward to the return of the long-lost one with emotions which enabled her to
      comprehend those that animated her husband; and pressing his hand tenderly as they seated
      themselves on the bench between the trees, she whispered, "Be of good cheer, Richard: your
      brother will keep the appointment—and oh! what joy for us all!"  
  On her side, Katherine was the prey to various conflicting feelings,—anxiety to know a
      brother whom she had as yet never seen—fear lest he should not come—and curiosity to be
      convinced whether he were as amiable, as generous-hearted, and as deserving of her sisterly
      love as Richard.  
  And Ellen—poor Ellen!—how difficult for her was the task of concealing all the emotions
      which agitated her bosom now! But she nevertheless derived much encouragement and hope from
      the frequent looks of profound meaning which were directed towards her by Eliza Sydney.  
  Bazzano endeavoured to soothe the anxiety of his beloved Katherine; while Mr. Monroe and
      Whittingham shared to a considerable degree the suspense which now animated them all.  
  It was about a quarter past nine o'clock, when Mr. Greenwood halted by the road-side, at a
      spot which commanded a view of the hill-top whereon stood the two trees.  
  He was on foot; and though he had so far recovered from his recent accident as to exhibit
      only a very trifling lameness in his gait, still the short walk which he had taken from
      Islington to the immediate vicinity of Markham Place, compelled him to pause and rest by the
      way-side.  
  He looked towards the hill, and could plainly distinguish the number of persons who were
      stationed on that eminence.  
  A deadly pallor overspread his countenance; and tears started from his eyes.  
  But in a few moments he exercised a violent effort over his emotions, and exclaimed aloud,
      with a kind of desperate emphasis, "I have promised   her   to go through the ordeal—and
      I must nerve myself to do so! Ah! Ellen," he added, his voice suddenly changing to a plaintive
      tone, "you have forced me to love you—you have taught me to bless the affectionate care and
      solicitude of woman!"  
  This apostrophe to his wife seemed to arouse all the better feelings of his soul; and
      without farther hesitation, he pursued his way towards the hill.  
  In a few minutes he reached a point where the road took a sudden turn to the right, thus
      running round all one side of the base of the eminence, and passing by the mansion itself.  
  There he paused again;—for although the party assembled on the hill were plainly perceived
      by him, he was yet unseen by them—a hedge concealing him from their view.  
  "Oh! is the dread ordeal so near at hand?" he exclaimed, with a temporary revival of
      bitterness of spirit. "Scarcely separated from   him   by a distance of two hundred
      yards—a distance so soon cleared—and yet—and yet——"  
  of her companions, stood more conspicuously than they upon the brow of the
      hill.  
  "She anxiously awaits my coming!" he murmured to himself. "Oh! why do I hesitate?"  
  And, as he spoke, he was about to emerge from the shade of the high hedge which concealed
      him,—about to turn the angle of the road, whereby he would immediately be perceived by those
      who stood on the hill,—when his attention was suddenly called elsewhere.  
  For, no sooner had the words—"Oh! why do I hesitate?" issued from his lips, than a
      post-chaise, which was dashing along the road towards London at a rapid rate, upset only a few
      paces from the spot where he had paused to glance towards the hill.  
  One of the fore-wheels of the vehicle had come off; and the chaise rolled over with a heavy
      crash.  
  The postillion instantly stopped his horses; while a man—the only traveller whom the vehicle
      contained—emerged from the door that was uppermost, and which he had contrived to open.  
  All this occurred so rapidly that the traveller stood in the road a few instants after the
      upsetting of the chaise.  
  Greenwood drew near to inquire if he were hurt: but, scarcely had his eyes caught a glimpse
      of that man's features, when he uttered a cry of mingled rage and delight, and sprang towards
      him.  
  For that traveller was Lafleur!  
  "Villain!" cried Greenwood, seizing hold of the Frenchman by the collar: "to you I owe all
      my misfortunes! Restore me the wealth of which you vilely plundered me!"  
  "Unhand me," exclaimed the ex-valet; "or, by heaven——"  
  "Wretch!" interrupted Greenwood: "it is for me to threaten!"  
  Lafleur gnashed his teeth with rage, and endeavoured to shake off his assailant with a
      sudden and desperate effort to hurl him to the ground.  
  But Greenwood, weakened though he was by illness, maintained his hold upon the Frenchman,
      and called for assistance.  
  The postillion knew not whose part to take, and therefore remained neutral.  
  Lafleur's situation was most critical; but he was not the man to yield without a desperate
      attempt to free himself.  
  Suddenly taking a pistol from his pocket, he aimed a furious blow, with the butt-end of the
      weapon, at the head of Greenwood, whose hat had fallen off in the struggle.  
  The blow descended with tremendous force: and in the next moment Greenwood lay senseless on
      the road, while Lafleur darted away from the spot with the speed of lightning.  
  For an instant the postillion hesitated whether to pursue the fugitive or attend to the
      wounded man; but he almost immediately decided in favour of the more humane course.  
  Upon examination he found that Greenwood's forehead had received a terrible wound, from
      which the blood was streaming down his temples.  
  He was moreover quite senseless; and the postillion, after binding the wound with a
      handkerchief, vainly endeavoured to recover him.  
  "Well, it won't do to let the poor gentleman die in this way," said the man to himself; and,
      after an instant's reflection, he remembered that Markham Place was close at hand.  
  Depositing Greenwood as comfortably as he could on the cushions which he took from the
      chaise, he hastened to the mansion, and related to the servants all that had occurred.  
  Without a moment's hesitation,—well knowing that their conduct would be approved of by their
      excellent master,—three stout footmen hastened, with the means of forming a litter, to the
      spot where the postillion had left Greenwood.  
  On their arrival they found that he had to some extent recovered his senses; and a cordial,
      which one of the footmen poured down his throat, completely revived him.  
  But, alas! he was aroused only to the fearful conviction that he had received his
      death-blow; for that mysterious influence which sometimes warns the soul of its approaching
      flight, was upon him!  
  "My good friends," he said, in a faint and languid tone, "I have one request to make—the
      request of a dying man!"  
  "Name it, sir," returned the senior footman; "and command us as you will."  
  "I conjure you, then," exclaimed Greenwood, speaking with more strength and animation than
      at first,—"I conjure you to remove me on that litter which your kindness has prepared, to the
      spot where your master, his family, and friends are now assembled. You hesitate! Oh! grant me
      this request, I implore you—and the Prince will not blame you!"  
  The servants were well aware of the motive which had induced their master and his companions
      to repair to the hill-top thus early on this particular day; and the urgent request of
      Greenwood now excited a sudden suspicion in their minds.  
  But they did not express their thoughts: there was no time to waste in question or
      comment—for the wounded gentleman, who had proffered so earnest a prayer, was evidently in a
      dying state.  
  Exchanging significant glances, the servants placed Greenwood upon the litter; and, aided by
      the postillion, set out with their burden towards the hill.  
  The angle of the road was passed; and the party bearing the wounded man, suddenly appeared
      to the view of those who were stationed on the hill.  
  "Merciful heaven!" exclaimed Richard, with a shudder: "what can this mean?"  
  "Be not alarmed," said Ellen: "it can have no reference to Eugene. Doubtless some poor
      creature has met with an accident——"  
  "But my own servants are the bearers of that litter which is approaching!" cried the Prince,
      now becoming painfully excited. "A man is stretched upon it—his head is bandaged—he lies
      motionless—Oh! what terrible fears oppress me!"  
  And as he uttered these words, Richard sank back almost fainting upon the seat.  
  The gallant warrior, whose heart had never failed in the thickest of the battle—whose
      courage was so dauntless when bullets were flying round him like hail—and whose valour had
      given him a name amongst the mightiest generals of the universe,—this man of a chivalrous soul
      was subdued by the agonising alarm that had suddenly menaced all his fond fraternal hopes with
      annihilation!  
  For so ominous—so sinister appeared to be the approach of a litter at the very moment when
      he was anxiously awaiting the presence of a long-lost brother, that his feelings experienced a
      revulsion as painful as it was sudden.  
  of the litter was forgotten by those who crowded round our hero in alarm at the
      change which had come over him.  
  Even Ellen turned away from the contemplation of that mournful procession which was toiling
      up the hill;—for she had seen Greenwood on the preceding evening—she had left him in good
      health—she had raised his spirits by her kind attentions and her loving language—and she did
      not for one moment apprehend that   he   could be the almost lifeless occupant of that
      litter!  
  "Pardon me, sweet Isabella—pardon me, dear Kate—and you also, my devoted friends," said
      Richard, at the expiration of a few minutes: "I am grieved to think that this weakness on my
      part should have distressed you—and yet I cannot be altogether ashamed of it!"  
  "Ashamed!" repeated Isabella, tenderly: "Oh! no, Richard—that word can never be associated
      with act or feeling on your part! For twelve years you have been separated from your
      brother—that last inscription on his own tree promises his return—and your generous heart is
      the prey of a suspense easily aggravated by the slightest circumstance of apparent ill
      omen."  
  "You describe my feelings exactly, dearest Isabel," said Markham, pressing with the
      tenderest warmth the hand of his lovely young wife.  
  "Because I know your heart so well," answered the Princess, with a sweet smile.  
  "Let us not believe in omens of an evil nature," said Katherine. "Some poor creature has met
      with an accident——"  
  "But wherefore should the servants bring him hither?" asked Richard.  
  This question produced a startling effect upon all who heard it: and no wonder that it did
      so—for the consideration which it involved had escaped all attention during the excitement of
      the last few minutes.  
  "Oh! heavens—now I am myself alarmed!" whispered Ellen to Eliza Sydney. "And yet it is
      foolish——"  
  At that moment the litter had approached so near the brow of the hill, that as Ellen glanced
      towards it while she spoke, her eyes obtained a full view of the countenance of him who lay
      stretched upon that mournful couch.  
  A piercing shriek burst from her lips; and she fell back, as if suddenly shot through the
      heart, into the arms of Eliza Sydney.  
  Richard sprang forward: a few steps brought him close by the litter, which the bearers now
      placed upon the ground   beneath the foliage of the very tree whereon the inscriptions were
       engraved  !  
  One look—one look was sufficient!  
  "Eugene—my brother Eugene!" exclaimed our hero, in a tone of the most intense anguish, as he
      cast himself on his knees by the side of the litter, and threw his arms around the dying man.
      "Oh! my God—is it thus that we meet? You are wounded, my dearest brother: but we will save
      you—we will save you! Hasten for a surgeon—delay not a moment—it is the life of my brother
      which is at stake!"  
  "Your brother, Richard!" cried Isabella, scarcely knowing what she said in that moment of
      intense excitement and profound astonishment: "your brother, my beloved husband? Oh! no—there
      is some dreadful mistake—for he whom you thus embraced is Mr. George Montague Greenwood!"  
  "Montague—Greenwood!" ejaculated Richard, starting as if an ice-bolt had suddenly entered
      his heart. "No—no—impossible, Isabella! Tell me—Eugene—tell me—you cannot be he of whom I have
      heard so much?"  
  "Yes, Richard—I am that villain!" answered Eugene, turning his dying countenance in an
      imploring manner towards his brother. "But do not desert me—do not spurn me—do not even
      upbraid me   now  !"  
  "Never—never!" cried the Prince, again embracing Eugene with passionate—almost frantic
      warmth. "Upbraid you, my dearest brother! Oh! no—no! Forget the past, Eugene—let it be buried
      in oblivion. And look up, my dear—dear brother: they are all kind faces which surround you!
      Here is Katherine—our sister, Eugene—yes, our sister——"  
  "I am acquainted with all that concerns her, Richard," said Eugene. "Come to my arms,
      Katherine—embrace me, my sweet sister;—and say—can   you   also forgive a brother who has
      done so much ill in the world, and whose name is covered with infamy?"  
  "Speak not thus, my dearest Eugene!" cried Kate, also falling on her knees by the side of
      her brother, and embracing him tenderly.  
  "And you, too, Isabella—for   you   also are my sister now," continued Eugene,
      extending his hand towards her: "do you pardon him who once inflicted so much injury upon your
      father?"  
  "You are my husband's brother—and you are therefore mine, Eugene," answered the Princess,
      tears trickling down her countenance. "None but affectionate relatives and kind friends now
      surround you; and your restoration to health shall be our earnest care!"  
  "Alas! there is no hope of recovery!" murmured Eugene.  
  "Yes—there   is   hope, my dearest husband!" exclaimed Ellen, who, having regained her
      consciousness through the kind attentions of Eliza Sydney, now flew to the litter.  
  "Your husband, Ellen!" cried Mr. Monroe and Richard as it were in the same breath.  
  "Yes—Eugene is my husband—my own, much-loved husband!" ejaculated Ellen: "and now you can
      divine the cause which led to the maintenance of that secret until this day!"  
  "And you, Mr. Monroe," said Eugene, a transient fire animating his eyes, as he clasped Ellen
      in his arms, "may be proud of your daughter—you also, Richard, may glory in her as a
      sister—for she has taught me to repent of my past errors—she has led me to admire and worship
      the noble character of Woman! But our child, Ellen—where is my boy—my darling Richard?"  
  "We will remove you into the house, Eugene," said his wife, bending over the litter with the
      tenderest solicitude; "and there you shall embrace your boy!"  
  "No—no—leave me here!" exclaimed her husband: "it is so sweet to lie beneath the foliage of
      this tree which bears my own name, and reminds me of my youthful days,—surrounded, too, by so
      many dear relatives and kind friends!"  
  that he was about to address her: "no reference to the past! All that is
      unpleasant is forgotten:—a happy future is before us!"  
  "Admirable woman!" cried Eugene, overpowered by so many manifestations of forgiveness,
      affection, and sympathy as he had received within the last few minutes.  
  Mario Bazzano was then presented to his brother-in-law.  
  "May God bless your union with my sister!" said Eugene, in a solemn tone. "For a long time I
      have known that I possessed a sister—and much have I desired to see her. Richard, be not angry
      with me when I inform you that I was in a room adjacent to that apartment wherein the
      explanations relative to Katherine's birth took place between yourself and the Marquis of
      Holmesford;—be not angry with me, I say, that I did not discover myself, and rush into your
      arms,—but I was then the victim of an insatiable ambition! Do not interrupt me—I have much to
      say. Let some one hasten to fetch my child; and do you all gather round me, to hear my last
      words!"  
  "Your last words!" shrieked Ellen: "Oh! no—you must recover!"  
  "Yes—with care and attention, dearest Eugene," said Richard, his eyes dimmed with tears,
      "you shall be restored to us."  
  Katherine and Isabella also wept abundantly.  
  A servant had already departed to fetch a surgeon: a second was now despatched to the house
      for the little Richard and the young Prince Alberto.  
  It was at length Whittingham's turn to go forward; and, whimpering like a child, he pressed
      Eugene's hand warmly in his own. The old man was unable to speak—his voice was choked with
      emotion; but Eugene recognised him, and acknowledged his faithful attachment with a few kind
      words which only increased the butler's grief.  
  "Listen to me for a few minutes, my dearest relatives—my kindest friends," said Eugene,
      after a brief pause. "I feel that I am dying—I have met my fate at the hands of the villanous
      Lafleur, who plundered me more than two years and a half ago, and whom I encountered ere now
      in my way hither. Alas! I have pursued a strange career—a career of selfishness and crime,
      sacrificing every consideration and every individual to my own purposes—raising at one time a
      colossal fortune upon the ruin of thousands! I was long buoyed up by the hope of making myself
      a great name in the world, alike famous for wealth and rank,—that I might convince you, my
      brother, how a man of talent could carve out his way without friends, and without capital at
      the beginning! But, alas! I have for some months been convinced—thanks to the affectionate
      reasoning of that angel Ellen, and to the contemplation of your example, Richard, even from a
      distance—that talent will not maintain prosperity for ever, unless it be allied to virtue! And
      let me observe, Richard—as God is my witness!—that with all my selfishness I never sought to
      injure you! When you were ruined by the speculations of Allen, I knew not that it was
         your   wealth of which I was plundering   him  : I had not the least suspicion
      that Mr. Monroe was even acquainted with that man! The truth was revealed to me one day at the
      dwelling of Isabella's parents: and heaven knows how deeply I felt the villany of my conduct,
      which had robbed   you  ! Do not interrupt me—I conjure you to allow me to proceed! Many
      and many a time did I yearn to hasten to your assistance when misfortune first overtook you,
      Richard:—but, no—the appointment had been made for a certain day—and I even felt a secret
      pleasure to think that you might probably be reduced to the lowest state of penury, from which
      in one moment, when that day should come, I might elevate you to an enjoyment of the half of
      my fortune! But that I have ever loved you, Richard, those inscriptions on the tree will
      prove; and, moreover, I once penetrated into the home of our forefathers—the study-window was
      not fastened—I effected an entrance—I sought your chamber—I saw you sleeping in your
      bed——"  
  "Oh! then it was not a dream!" exclaimed Richard. "Dearest Eugene, say no more—we require no
      explanations—no apology for the past! Here is your child, Eugene—and mine also: your son and
      your little nephew are by your side!"  
  Eugene raised himself, by Ellen's aid, upon the litter, and embraced the two children with
      the most unfeigned tenderness.  
  For a few moments he gazed earnestly upon their innocent countenances: then, yielding to a
      sudden impulse, as the incidents of his own career swept through his memory, he exclaimed,
      "God grant that they prove more worthy of the name of   Markham   than I!"  
  Richard and Ellen implored him not to give way to bitter reflections for the past.  
  "Alas! such counsel is offered as vainly as it is kindly meant!" murmured Eugene. "My life
      has been tainted with many misdeeds—and not the least was my black infamy towards that
      excellent man, who afterwards became your friend, Richard—I mean Thomas Armstrong!"  
  "He forgave you—he forgave you, Eugene!" exclaimed the Prince.  
  "Ellen has informed me that you have in your possession a paper which he gave you on his
      death-bed——"  
  "And which is to be opened this day," added Richard.  
  Then, drawing forth the document, he broke the seal.  
  A letter fell upon the ground.  
  "Read it," said Eugene: "all that concerns you is deeply interesting to me."  
  The Prince complied with his brother's request, and read the letter aloud. Its contents were
      as follow:—  
  
  "I have studied human nature to little purpose, and contemplated the phases of the human
       character with small avail, if I err in the prediction which I am now about to record.  
  "  Richard, you will become a great man—as you are now a good one.    
  "Should necessity compel you to open this document at any time previously to the 10th of
       July, 1843, receive the fortune to which it refers as an encouragement to persevere in
       honourable pursuits. But should you not read these words until the day named, my hope and
       belief are that you will be placed, by your own exertions, far beyond the want of that sum
       which, in either case, is bequeathed to you as a testimonial of my sincerest regard and
       esteem.  
  "Signor Viviani, banker at Pinalla, in the State of Castelcicala, or his agents, Messrs.
       Glyn and Co., bankers, London, will pay over to you, on presentation of this letter, the sum
       of seventy-five thousand pounds, with all interest, simple and compound, accruing thereto
       since the month of July, 1839, at which period I placed that amount in the hands of Signor
       Viviani.  
  "One word more, my dear young friend. Should you ever encounter an individual
       who speaks ill of the memory of Thomas Armstrong, say to him, '  He forgave his
        enemies!  ' And should you ever meet one who has injured me, say to him, '  In the name
        of Thomas Armstrong I forgive you  .'  
  "Be happy, my dear young friend—be happy!  
    "THOMAS ARMSTRONG."  
  
  
  It would be impossible to describe the emotions awakened in the breast of all those who
      heard the contents of this letter.  
  "Now, my dearest brother," exclaimed Richard, after a brief pause, "  in the name of
       Thomas Armstrong, you are forgiven the injury which you did to him  !"  
  "Thank you, dear brother, for that assurance: it relieves my mind of a heavy load! And,
      Richard," continued Eugene, in a voice tremulous with emotions and faint with the ebb of
      life's spirit, "the prediction is verified—you are a great man! The world is filled with the
      glory of your name—and you are as good as you are great! The appointment has been kept:—but
      how? We meet beneath the foliage of the two trees—you as the heir apparent to a throne—I as a
      ruined profligate!"  
  "No—no!" exclaimed the Prince; "you shall live to be rich and prosperous——"  
  Eugene smiled faintly.  
  "Merciful heavens! he is dying!" ejaculated Ellen.  
  And it was so!  
  Terrible was the anguish of those by whom he was surrounded.  
  Mr. Wentworth, the surgeon, appeared at this crisis; but his attentions were ministered in
      vain.  
  Eugene's eyes grew dim—still he continued sensible; and he knew that his last moments were
      approaching.  
  Richard—Ellen—Katherine—Eliza Sydney—the two children—Mario Bazzano—Isabella—Mr. Monroe—and
      the faithful Whittingham—all wept bitterly, as the surgeon shook his head in despair!  
  "My husband—my dearest husband!" screamed Ellen, wildly: "look upon me—look upon your
      child—oh! my God—this day that was to have been so happy!"  
  Eugene essayed to speak—but could not: and that was his last mortal effort.  
  In another moment his spirit had fled for ever!  
  
  CHAPTER CCLIX.   CONCLUSION.  
  Lafleur was captured, tried, and condemned to transportation for life, for the manslaughter
      of Eugene Markham.  
  Immediately after the trial the Prince and Princess of Montoni, with the infant Prince
      Alberto, and accompanied by Signor and Signora Bazzano, embarked for Castelcicala in the
         Torione   steam-frigate which was sent to convey them thither. We need scarcely say
      that the faithful Whittingham was in our hero's suite.  
  Eliza Sydney continues to reside at her beautiful villa near Upper Clapton; and her
      charitable disposition, her amiable manners, and her exemplary mode of life render her the
      admiration and pride of the entire neighbourhood.  
  The Earl of Warrington and Diana dwell in comparative seclusion, but in perfect happiness,
      and have never once regretted the day when they accompanied each other to the altar.  
  King Zingary departed this life about six months ago; and Morcar is now the sovereign of the
      Gipsy tribe in these realms. He has already begun strenuously to exert himself in the
      improvement of the moral character of his people; and though he finds the materials on which
      he labours to make an impression somewhat stubborn, he has declared his intention of
      persevering in his good work. His wife Eva constantly wears round her neck the gold chain
      which Isabella sent her; and night and morning the son of these good people is taught to kneel
      down and pray for the continued prosperity and happiness of the Prince and Princess of
      Montoni.  
  Pocock has remained an honest, industrious, and worthy man. He has now a good establishment
      in one of the most business-streets of the City, employs many hands, and has purchased some
      nice little freehold property in the neighbourhood of Holloway—in order, as he says, that he
      may have an occasional excuse for taking a walk round the mansion which bears the name of him
      whom he extols as his saviour—his benefactor!  
  And that mansion—to whom does it now belong? It is the property of Mr. Monroe, and will
      become Ellen's at his death: but the old man is still strong and hearty; and every fine
      afternoon he may be seen walking through the grounds, leaning upon the arm of his daughter or
      of Eliza Sydney, who is a frequent visitor at the Place.  
  Ellen is beautiful as ever, and might doubtless marry well, did she choose to seek society:
      but she has vowed to remain single for the sake of her child, who is now a blooming boy, and
      whom she rears with the fond hope that he will prove worthy of the name that he bears—the name
      of his uncle, Richard Markham.  
  Skilligalee and the Rattlesnake, long since united in matrimonial bonds, are leading a
      comfortable and steady life in Hoxton, the business of their little shop producing them not
      only a sufficiency for the present, but also the wherewith to create a provision for their old
      age.  
  Crankey Jem called upon them on the evening following the death of the Resurrection Man, and
      acquainted them with the event. From that moment nothing positive has ever been heard of James
      Cuffin; but it is supposed that he embarked as a common sailor in some ship bound for a long
      voyage.  
  Henry Holford remains a prisoner in Bethlem Hospital. He is in the full and unimpaired
      possession of his intellects, but has often and bitterly cursed the day when he listened to
      the whispering voice of his morbid ambition.  
  Albert Egerton has already become a wealthy merchant, possessing an establishment at Montoni
      and one in London; and, when sojourning at the former, he receives frequent invitations to
      dine at the Palace.  
  Lord Dunstable has retrieved the errors of his earlier years by an unwearied course of
      honourable and upright conduct, steadfastly pursued from the moment when he declared himself
      to have been touched by the words of the Prince of Montoni on the occasion of the exposure in
      Stratton Street.  
  Colonel Cholmondeley, Sir Rupert Harborough, and Mr. Chichester are undergoing a sentence of
      ten years' condemnation to the galleys at Brest, for having attempted to pass forged Bank of
      England notes at a money-changer's shop in Paris.  
  Major Anderson continues to live honourably and comfortably upon a pension allowed him by
      the Prince.  
  Mrs. Chichester removed about two years ago to a pleasant cottage in Wales, where she dwells
      in the tranquil seclusion suitable to her taste.  
  Filippo Dorsenni has opened an extensive hotel for foreigners at the West End of the town,
      and is happy in the prosperity of his business.  
  ground of cruelty and ill-treatment; and in this suit she succeeded.  
  Sir Cherry and Major Dapper continue as intimate as ever, and pursue pretty well the same
      unprofitable career as we have hitherto seen them following.  
  Mr. Banks, the undertaker of Globe Lane, carried his economic principles to such an extent
      that he fell into the habit of purchasing cloth to cover his coffins at a rate which certainly
      defied competition; but a quantity of that material having been missed from a warehouse in the
      City and traced to his establishment, he was compelled, although much against his inclination,
      to accompany an officer to Worship Street, where the porter belonging to the aforesaid
      warehouse was already in the dock on a charge of stealing the lost property. Vain was it that
      Mr. Banks endeavoured to impress upon the magistrate's mind the fact that he was as "pious and
      savoury a old wessel as ever made a coffin on economic principles:" the case was referred to
      the learned Recorder at the Old Bailey for farther investigation; and one fine morning Mr.
      Banks found himself sentenced to two years' imprisonment in the Compter for receiving goods
      knowing them to have been stolen.  
  Concerning Tomlinson and old Michael Martin, we have been unable to glean any tidings: but
      in respect to Robert Stephens, we have reason to believe that he manages to obtain a
      livelihood, under a feigned name, in a counting-house at New York.  
  John Smithers, better known to our readers as Gibbet, is the wealthiest inhabitant of a new
      town that has risen within these last three years in the valley of the Ohio; and in a recent
      letter to the Prince of Montoni he declares that he is happier than he ever thought he could
      become.  
  
  EPILOGUE.  
  'Tis done:   Virtue   is rewarded—  Vice   has received its punishment.  
  Said we not, in the very opening of this work, that from London branched off two roads,
      leading to two points totally distinct the one from the other?  
  Have we not shown how the one winds its tortuous way through all the noisome dens of crime,
      chicanery, dissipation, and voluptuousness; and how the other meanders amidst rugged rocks and
      wearisome acclivities, but having on its way-side the resting-places of rectitude and
      virtue?  
  The youths who set out along those roads,—the elder pursuing the former path, the younger
      the latter,—have fulfilled the destinies to which their separate ways conducted them.  
  The one sleeps in an early grave: the other is the heir-apparent to a throne.  
  Yes: and the prophetic words of the hapless Mary-Anne are fulfilled to the letter; for now
      in their palace at Montoni, do the hero and heroine of our tale, while retrospecting over all
      they have seen and all they have passed through, devote many a kind regret to the memory of
      the departed girl who predicted for them all the happiness which they enjoy!  
  And that happiness—the world has seen no felicity more perfect.  
  Adored by a tender wife,—honoured by her parents, on whose brows his valour placed the
      diadems which they wear,—and almost worshipped by a grateful nation whom his prowess redeemed
      from slavery,—Richard Markham knows not a single care.  
  On her side,—wedded to him to whom her young heart gave its virgin love,—proud of a husband
      whose virtues in peace and whose glory in war have shed undying lustre on the name which he
      bears,—blessed, too, with a lovely boy, whose mind already develops the reflections of his
      father's splendid qualities, and with a charming girl, who promises to be the heiress of the
      mother's beauty,—can Isabella be otherwise than happy?  
  Kind Reader, who have borne with me so long—one word to thee.  
  If amongst the circle of thy friends, there be any who express an aversion to peruse this
      work,—fearful from its title or from fugitive report that the mind will be shocked more than
      it can be improved, or the blush of shame excited on the cheek oftener than the tear of
      sympathy will be drawn from the eye;—if, in a word, a false fastidiousness should prejudge,
      from its own supposition or from misrepresentations made to it by others, a book by means of
      which we have sought to convey many an useful moral and lash many a flagrant abuse,—do you,
      kind reader, oppose that prejudice, and exclaim—"Peruse, ere you condemn!"  
  For if, on the one side, we have raked amidst the filth and loathsomeness of society,—have
      we not, on the other, devoted adequate attention to its bright and glorious phases?  
  In exposing the hideous deformity of vice, have we not studied to develope the witching
      beauty of virtue?  
  Have we not taught, in fine, how the example and the philanthropy of one good man can
       "  save more souls and redeem more sinners than all the Bishops that ever wore
       lawn-sleeves  ?"  
  If, then, the preceding pages be calculated to engender one useful thought—awaken one
      beneficial sentiment,—the work is not without its value.  
  If there be any merit in honesty of purpose and integrity of aim,—then is that merit
      ours.  
  And if, in addition to considerations of this nature, we may presume that so long as we are
      enabled to afford entertainment, our labours will be rewarded by the approval of the immense
      audience to whom we address ourselves,—we may with confidence invite attention to a   Second
       Series   of "  The Mysteries of London  ."  
  GEORGE W. M. REYNOLDS.  
  
  THE END OF THE FIRST SERIES.  
  London:— J. J. Wilkinson, Printer, "Bonner House," Seacoal Lane.  
  
  
  
   Booty, plunder.  
  
   Secured.  
  
   White Upper Coat: synonymous with "White Poodle."  
  
   Handkerchief.  
  
   Pocket.  
  
   Strip.  
  
   Pawn the coat.  
  
   Gin.  
  
   Stomach.  
  
   Head.  
  
   Judges.  
  
   Transported.  
  
   Barrister.  
  
   Teeth.  
  
   A thief who sneaks down areas to see what he can steal In kitchens.  
  
   Prison.  
  
   Burglary.  
  
   West-street, Smithfield.  
  
   Gave him a share.  
  
   Informer.  
  
   Turnkey.  
  
   The Hulks.  
  
   Waistcoat-pocket.  
  
   Hands.  
  
   Stealing a lady's reticule from her pretty arm.  
  
   The Burglar.  
  
   Public-house.  
  
   Gunpowder.  
  
   A companion.  
  
   Chaplain.  
  
   The Gallows.  
  
   Passing forged notes.  
  
   Friends.  
  
   Informed.  
  
   Sixpence.  
  
   Bad Meat.  
  
   Dark lantern.  
  
   Implements used by burglars.  
  
   Receiver of Stolen Goods.  
  
   Swell-mobites.  
  
   Swell-mobites who affect to be dissenting ministers, and preach in the open air in order to
      collect crowds, upon whose pockets their confederates work.  
  
   Common thieves.  
  
   Thieves who steal pocket-handkerchiefs.  
  
   Swell-mobites, who steal from the compters in shops, while their confederates make some
      trifling purchase. These thieves often contrive to empty the till.  
  
   Persons who pass false money.  
  
   Persons who pass forged bank-notes at races, fairs, etc.  
  
   Common Cheats.  
  
   Gentlemanly—agreeable.  
  
   Hands.  
  
   Hanging.  
  
   Inform, give warning.  
  
   Sovereigns.  
  
   Flash houses.  
  
   A thief who frequents theatres.  
  
   Pulpit  
  
   A Jew fence: a receiver of stolen goods.  
  
   1s. 6d.  
  
   The drop.  
  
   A watch seal.  
  
   Served to deceive the unwary.  
  
   Pocket book.  
  
   Watch.  
  
   Jack Ketch.  
  
   Utterer of false sovereigns.  
  
   A convict returned from transportation before his time.  
  
   Hanged.  
  
   A juvenile thief.  
  
   Privately whipped in prison.  
  
   This song is entirely original.  
  
   Burst it open.  
  
   Surgeon.  
  
   The author begs it to be fully understood that his own sentiments relative to courts and
      court etiquette, &amp;c., must not be identified with the opinions of these ladles who are now
      conversing together.  
  
   Four-penny piece.  
  
   "We have not gone to bed."  
  
   The causes which produce prostitution are as follows:  
  I. Natural causes:—1. Licentiousness of inclination. 2. Irritability of temper. 3. Pride and
      love of dress. 4. Dishonesty, and desire of property. 5. Indolence.  
  II. Accidental causes:—1. Seduction. 2. Inconsiderate and ill-sorted marriages. 3.
      Inadequate remuneration for female work. 4. Want of employment. 5. Intemperance. 6. Poverty.
      7. Want of proper looking after their servants on the part of masters and mistresses. 8.
      Ignorance. 9. Bad example of parents. 10. Harsh and unkind treatment by parents and other
      relations. 11. Attendance on evening dancing schools, and dancing parties. 12. Theatre going.
      13. The publication of improper works, and obscene prints. 14. The countenance and reward
      given to vice. 15. The small encouragement given to virtue.  
  The proportions amongst those females who have deviated from the path of virtue may be
      quoted as follows:—  
  1. One-fourth from being servants in taverns and public-houses, where they have been seduced
      by men frequenting these places of dissipation and temptation.  
  2. One-fourth from the intermixture of the sexes in factories, and those employed in
      workhouses, shops, &amp;c.  
  3. One-fourth by procuresses, or females who visit country towns, markets, and places of
      worship, for the purpose of decoying good-looking girls of all classes.  
  4. One-fourth may be divided into four classes:—1. Such as being indolent, or possessing bad
      tempers, leave their situations. 2. Those who are driven to that awful course by young men
      making false promises. 3. Children who have been urged by their mothers to become prostitutes
      for a livelihood. 4. Daughters of clergymen, half-pay officers, &amp;c., who are left
      portionless orphans.  
  
   "The process of parliamentary reporting, and the qualifications of those by whom the task
      is performed, cannot be adequately described within the narrow limits of this article; but it
      is hoped that the reader may be enabled to form some idea of both from the following brief
      outline. Every publication not copying from, or abridging any other, but giving original
      reports, keeps one of a series of reporters constantly in the gallery of the lords, and
      another in the commons. These, like sentinels, are at stated periods relieved by their
      colleagues, when they take advantage of the interval to transcribe their notes, in order to be
      ready again to resume the duty of note-taking, and afterwards that of transcription for the
      press. A succession of reporters for each establishment is thus maintained; and the process of
      writing from their notes is never interrupted until an account of the whole debates of the
      evening has been committed to the hands of the primer. There are only seven publications for
      which a reporter is constantly in attendance; and these include the London morning papers,
      from which all others that give debates are under the necessity of copying or abridging them.
      The number of reporters maintained by each varies from ten or eleven to seventeen or eighteen.
      They are for the most part gentlemen of liberal education—many have graduated at the
      Universities of Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Glasgow, or Dublin; and they must all possess a
      competent knowledge of the multifarious subjects which come under the consideration of
      Parliament. The expedition and ability with which their duties are performed must be admitted
      by every one who attends a debate and afterwards reads a newspaper, while the correctness and
      rapidity with which their manuscript is put in type and printed, has long been a subject of
      surprise and admiration."—  The Parliamentary Companion.    
  
   Commencement of Book V.  
  
   The French terms for the various steps and features of the ballet-dance are—  jetés  ,
         balances  ,   rondes de jambes  ,   fouettes  ,   cabrioles  ,
         pirouettes sur le coude-pied  ,   sauts de basques  ,   pas de bourrés  ,
      and   entre-chats à quatre  ,   à six  , and   à huit  .  
  
   The Dietary Table of Clerkenwell New Prison, already quoted at page 190, is as
      follows:—  
  
   It is too frequently the habit to throw the blame of the diabolical nature of some of the
      clauses of the New Poor Law upon the masters of workhouses: whereas the whole vituperation
      should be levelled against the guardians who issue the dietary-tables, from the conditions of
      which the masters dare not deviate. We have no doubt that there are many masters of workhouses
      who are humane and kind-hearted men. Indeed, having inspected several of those establishments
      for the purpose of collecting information to aid us in the episode to which this note is
      appended, we have been enabled to ascertain that such is really the fact. Amongst others, we
      must signalize the Edmonton and Tottenham Union House, the master of which is Mr. Barraclough.
      This gentleman is a man of a most benevolent heart, and exerts himself in every way to
      ameliorate the condition of those entrusted to his charge. The guardians of that particular
      Union are, moreover, worthy, liberal-minded and considerate men, who sanction and encourage
      Mr. Barraclough in his humane endeavours to make the inmates of the workhouse as little
      sensible of their degraded condition as possible. Would that all boards of guardians merited
      the same encomium!  
  
   The products of ordinary combustion are sufficiently poisonous. The gases produced by the
      decomposition of the dead are partially soluble in water; and a fatty pellicle is instantly
      formed in large quantities. The wood, saturated with these dissolved gases, and used as fuel
      (a frequent occurrence in poor neighbourhoods, and in the vicinity of metropolitan
      grave-yards), must diffuse, in addition to the exhalations constantly given off from bodies in
      vaults, and on the earth's surface, vast volumes of gaseous poison. Hence many of those
      maladies whose source, symptoms, and principles defy medical experience either to explain or
      cure.  
  
   In case the reader should doubt the accuracy of any of the statements relative to the
      employment of the youth of both sexes in the English coal-mines, which he may find in this
      chapter, we beg to refer him to the "  Report   and   Appendix to the Report  , of
      the Children's Employment Commission, presented to Both Houses of Parliament by command of Her
      Majesty, in 1842."  
  
   "Explosions of carbonated hydrogen gas, which is usually called by the miners 'sulphur,'
      sometimes prove very destructive, not only by scorching to death, but by the suffocation of
      foul air after the explosion is over, and also by the violence by which persons are driven
      before it, or are smothered by the ruins thrown down upon them."—  Appendix to First
       Report.    
  
   "Amongst the children and young persons I remarked that some of the muscles were developed
      to a degree amounting to a deformity; for example, the muscles of the back and loins stood
      from the body, and appeared almost like a rope passing under the skin."—  Report.    
  
   See   Report  , page 43, section 194.  
  
   Secured the money.  
  
   Informer—spy.  
  
   In prison.  
  
   St. Giles's.  
  
   Coal-mine.  
  
   Rum-punch.  
  
   Wife.  
  
   Take something to drink.  
  
   Beggar with Matches.  
  
   Soldiers.  
  
   Treasury  
  
   Smoking a pipe.  
  
   Drinking mug.  
  
   Drinking  
  
   The porter.  
  
  A thief who steals damp linen off the hedges in the country.  
  
  . Talking—palaver. "Tollibon" is the tongue.  
  
  . Get our living in the same way.  
  
  . Share the money.  
  
  . Advertised in the newspapers.  
  
  . Sovereigns.  
  
  . Sent to the receiver.  
  
  Silver spoons.  
  
  Silver milk jugs or sugar basins.  
  
  Persons who receive and melt down stolen metal.  
  
  Money will be obtained.  
  
  In order to avoid breaking the sense of this song by a constant repetition of those
      typographical signs which point a reference to foot-notes, we have deemed it best to give a
      complete glossary:—  
    Lip us a chant.   Sing us a song.  
    Mum your dubber.   Keep your mouth shut.  
    My gropus clinks coppers.   My pocket has got money in it.  
    Fake the rubber.   Stand treat this time.  
    Noggin of lightning.   Quartern of gin.  
    Slacken your glib.   Loosen your tongue.  
    Cease napping the bib.   Leave off whining.  
    Precious-rum squeeze at the Spell.   Good evening's work at the theatre.  
    Yokel.   Countryman.  
    Forks.   Fingers.  
    Rum-Tom-Pat.   Clergyman.  
    Kickseys.   Breeches.  
    Twitch.   Silk net purse.  
    Glims.   Spectacles.  
    Snitch.   Nose.  
    Hock-dockeys.   Shoes.  
    Gam-cases.   Stockings.  
    Parish prig.   Parson.  
    Nib-cove.   Gentleman.  
    Chanting the play.   Explaining the tricks and manœuvres of thieves.  
    Shov'd my trunk.   Moved off.  
    Gay-tyke-boy.   Dog-fancier.  
    Chirp.   Give information.  
    Spelt in the leer.   Advertised in the newspaper.  
    Leg-glazier.   A thief who carries the apparatus of a glazier, and calls at houses
      when he knows the master and mistress are out, telling the servant that he has been sent to
      clean and mend the windows. By these means he obtains admission, and plunders the house of any
      thing which he can conveniently carry off.  
    Fadger.   Glazier's frame.  
    Squibs.   Paint brushes.  
    Nibsomest cribs.   Best houses.  
    Blue-bottles.   Police.  
    Flue flaker.   Chimney-sweeper.  
    Slavey.   Female servant.  
    Flag.   Fourpenny-piece.  
    Fly the blue-pigeon.   Cut the lead off the roof.  
    Bank the rag.   Make some money.  
    Mabber.   Cab-driver.  
    Dose the swell fred.   Inveigle the fare into a public-house and hocus him.  
    Vamper.   A fellow who frequents public-houses, where he picks a quarrel with any
      person who has got a ring or a watch about him, his object being to lead the person into a
      pugilistic encounter, so as to afford the vamper's confederate, or pal, the opportunity of
      robbing him.  
    Mill for a ned.   Fight for a sovereign.  
    Gams.   Legs.  
    Ticker.   Watch.  
    Flamms.   Rings.  
    Swell-street.   The West End.  
    Mounseer-fak'd calp.   A hat of French manufacture.  
    Strummel.   Hair.  
    Heater-cases.   Wellington boots.  
    Lully.   Shirt.  
    Upper ben.   Coat.  
    Rain-napper.   Umbrella.  
    Gold-headed dick.   Riding-whip.  
    River-tick.   Tradesmen's books.  
    Box of the stone-jug.   Cell in Newgate.  
    Hobbled.   Committed for trial.  
    Macing.   Swindling.  
    'Twill prove but a debt.   Swindlers of this class usually arrange their business in
      such a manner as to escape a conviction on the plea that the business is a mere matter of
      debt. In order to induce the jury to come to this decision, recourse is had to the assistance
      of pals, who depose to conversations which they pretended to overhear between the prosecuting
      tradesman and the swindling prisoner, but which in reality never took place.  
  
  Pass fictitious Bank-Notes.  
  
  Handkerchief.  
  
  The Hulks.  
  
  Transports.  
  
  Pulpit.  
  
  Preach.  
  
  This episode is founded on fact. The newspapers of 1840, or 1841, will in this instance
      furnish the type of Mr. Robert Cuffin in the person of a certain Reverend who obtained much
      notoriety at Rickmansworth.  
  
  Londoners.  
  
  Countrymen.  
  
  Fact.  
  
  Fact.  
  
  The tread-mill.  
  
  This Act was denounced at the time as "one calculated only to encourage fornication and
      adultery in the descendants of George the Second."  
  
  Now Duchess of Inverness.  
  
  The family name of the Earl of Malmsbury.  
  
  We had the honour of enjoying the friendship of Sir Sydney Smith in Paris during the years
      1834-7; and the misfortunes of Queen Caroline frequently became the topic of discourse between
      us. Sir Sydney Smith assured us on several occasions and in the most solemn manner, that the
      reports which had been circulated relative to himself and that injured lady, during her
      residence at Blackheath, were vile calumnies. "Queen Caroline had certainly much levity of
      manner, and was very thoughtless and inexperienced," he would observe; "but her virtue was
      never for a moment suspected by me." The following passage occurs in a letter which Queen
      Caroline wrote to the Countess de C——, shortly before the commencement of the Trial, and which
      autograph letter (  together with numerous important papers concerning George the Third and
       his family  ) is in our possession:—"This letter will be delivered to you by an individual
      who is persecuted because he has served me faithfully. I recommend him to your kindness. The
      Baron Bergami is of high birth. He has been unfortunate: I perceived the excellence of the
      qualities he possesses—I have ameliorated his condition in a pecuniary point of view—and thus
      have I secured him as my friend. The fury of my adversaries pursues him—I tremble for his very
      existence—my royal husband is   capable of any crime   to ensure the gratification of his
      revenge. I therefore crave your protection for Bergami, and hope that by your influence you
      will so arrange matters that he shall not be molested in Paris. I do not ask you to admit him
      into your society, unless agreeable to yourself; at the same time, my dear Countess, you must
      be aware that pride is folly. We must judge mankind by the scale of merit, and not by the
      grandeur of titles. This is the course I have adopted through life, and am well pleased with
      my line of conduct. Recollect this precept: you will perceive its wisdom when you grow
      old."  
  
  The last and fatal illness of Queen Caroline was caused by a stoppage in the bowels. Doctors
      Maton and Warren (the king's physicians) attended upon the illustrious lady; and various
      remedies were prescribed by them—but in vain. One morning, a bottle of   croton oil   was
      sent to an individual of Her Majesty's household, accompanied by the following letter:—  
  
  "  Sir  ,—I am aware that nothing but the great—the very great—danger Her Majesty is
       in, would excuse this unauthorised intrusion. Having, however, learnt from the papers the
       nature of Her Majesty's complaint, I have taken the liberty to forward to you, with a view of
       having it handed to Dr. Maton or Dr. Warren, a medicine of strong aperient properties, called
          croton oil  —one drop of which is a dose. It is most probably known to some of Her
       Majesty's advisers; but it has only been recently brought into this country. It may be proper
       to observe that Doctor Pemberton has   himself   taken it; and I have administered it to
       more than one person. Its operation is quick and certain. Two drops, when made into pills
       with bread, usually produce saving effects in half or three quarters of an hour. It has
       struck me that this medicine might be successfully administered to Her Majesty. At all events
       I can have done no harm in taking the liberty to suggest it; but, unwilling to appear anxious
       to make myself obtrusive, or to seem influenced by any other than the most disinterested
       motives, I have declined giving my name.  
  "Yours respectfully,  
  A CHEMIST."    
  This letter, and the medicine, were forwarded to Dr. Pemberton, of Great George Street,
      Hanover Square, who had at one time been Her Majesty's principal medical attendant. Dr.
      Pemberton's answer was this:—"I have myself taken   two   drops of the   croton
       oil  , on several occasions; and the Queen may safely take   one  ." The royal
      physicians obtained an interview with George the Fourth, and the result was a declaration on
      their part, "  that they did not consider themselves justified in administering the medicine
       to Her Majesty  ." Comment is unnecessary.  
  
  But, ah! while of Victoria's court I'm singing,  
  What solemn music echoes from the lyre!  
  And wherefore does a passing bell seem ringing,  
  And melancholy thoughts my soul inspire?  
  See where the raven now his flight is winging—  
  Hark to the anthem of the funeral choir—  
  List to the curfew's note of death-like gloom—  
  And drop a tear o'er Flora Hastings' tomb!   
    Sequel to Don Juan.  
  
  
  Such a disgustingly fulsome, and really atrocious paragraph did actually appear in the
         Morning Post   three or four years ago.  
  
  Guillotines.  
  
  Gendarmes.  
  
  The readers must not for a moment suppose that we intend Mr. Sniff to be a type of
         all   the city aldermen. Far from it. There are some excellent, honourable, and
      talented men amongst the civic body. Mr. Sniff is as different from what Sir Peter Laurie
         is  , or Mr. Harmer   was  , as light differs from darkness. There are, however,
      some individuals wearing civic gowns, who are a disgrace to the great city of which they have
      the unaccountable effrontery to remain magistrates.  
  
  From Evans' and Forbes' "Geographical Grammar." Edition of 1814.  
  
  So far back as 1824,   The Times   newspaper thus directed attention to the
      atrocious nature of Crockford's Club:—  
  "'Fishmongers' Hall,' or the   Crock  -odile Mart for gudgeons, flat-fish, and pigeons
      (which additional title that 'Hell' has acquired from the nature of its 'dealings') has
      recently closed for the season. The opening and closing of this wholesale place of plunder and
      robbery, are events which have assumed a degree of importance, not on account of the two or
      three unprincipled knaves to whom it belongs, and who are collecting by it vast fortunes
      incalculably fast, but for the rank, character, and fortunes of the many who are weak enough
      to be inveigled and fleeced there. The profits for the last season, over and above expenses,
      which cannot be less than £100 a day, are stated to be full £150,000. It is wholly impossible,
      however, to come at the exact sum, unless we could get a peep at the Black Ledger of accounts
      of each day's gain at this Pandemonium, which, though, of course omits to name of whom, as
      that might prove awkward, if at any time the book fell into other hands. A few statements from
      the sufferers themselves would be worth a thousand speculative opinions on the subject,
      however they might be near the fact, and they would be rendering themselves, and others, a
      vital benefit were they to make them. Yet some idea can be formed of what has been sacked, by
      the simple fact that   one thousand pounds   was given at the close of the season to be
      divided among the waiters alone, besides the Guy Fawkes of the place, a head servant, having
      half that sum presented to him last January for a New Year's gift. A visitor informed me, that
      one night there was such immense play, he was convinced a million of money was, to use a
      tradesman's phrase, turned on that occasion. This sum, thrown over six hours' play of sixty
      events per hour, 360 events for the night, will give an average stake of £2777 odd to each
      event. This will not appear very large when it is considered that £10,000 or more were
      occasionally down upon single events, belonging to many persons of great fortunes.  
  "Allowing only one such stake to fall upon the points of the game in favour of the bank per
      hour, full £16,662. were thus sacrificed; half of which, at least, was hard cash from the
      pockets of the players, exclusively of what they lost besides.  
  "Now that there is a little cessation to the satanic work, the frequenters to this den of
      robbers would do well to make a few common reflections;—that it is their money alone which
      pays the rent and superb embellishments of the house—the good feeding and the fashionable
      clothing in which are disguised the knaves about it—the refreshments and wine with which they
      are regaled, and which are served with no sparing hand, in order to bewilder the senses to
      prevent from being seen what may be going forward, but which will not be at their service,
      they may rest well assured, longer than they have money to be plucked of; and above all, it is
      for the most part their money, of which are composed the enormous fortunes the two or three
      keepers have amassed, and which will increase them prodigiously while they are still blind
      enough to go. To endeavour to gain back any part of the lost money, fortunes will be further
      wasted in the futile attempt, as the same nefarious and diabolical practices by which the
      first sums were raised, are still pursued to multiply them. One of these 'Hellites' commenced
      his career by pandering to the fatal and uncontrollable appetites for gambling of far humbler
      game than he is now hunting down, whose losses and ruin have enabled him to bedeck this place
      with every intoxicating fascination and incitement, and to throw out a bait of a large sum of
      money, well hooked, to catch the largest fortunes, which are as sure to be netted as the
      smaller ones were. Sum up the amount of your losses, my lords and gentlemen, when, if you are
      still sceptical, you must be convinced of these things. Those noblemen and gentlemen, just
      springing into life and large property, should be ever watchful of themselves, as there are
      two or three persons of some rank, who themselves have been ruined by similar means, and now
      condescend to become 'Procurers' to this foul establishment, kept by a
       '  ci-devant  ' fishmonger's man, and who are rewarded for their services in
      the ratio of the losses sustained by the victims whom they allure to it.  
  "They wish to give the place the character of a subscription club, pretending that none are
      admitted but those whose names are first submitted for approval to a committee, and then are
      balloted for. All this is false. In the first place, the members of different clubs at once
      are considered 'eligible;' and in the next, all persons are readily admitted who are 'well'
      introduced, have money to lose, and whose forbearance under losses can be safely relied upon.
      Let the visitors pay a subscription—let them call themselves a club, or whatever they
      choose—still the house having a bank put down from day to day by the same persons to be played
      against, and which has points of the games in its favour, is nothing but a common
      gaming-house, and indictable as such by the statutes; and in the eye of the law, the visitors
      are 'rogues and vagabonds.' Were it otherwise—why don't the members of this club! be seen at
      the large plate-glass windows of the bow front, as well as at the windows of reputable
      club-houses? No one is ever there but the creatures of the 'hell,' dressed out and bedizened
      with gold ornaments (most probably formerly belonging to unhappy and ruined players), to show
      off at them, and who look like so many jackdaws in borrowed plumes; the players, ashamed of
      being seen by the passers by, sneak in and out like cats who have burnt their tails. Some of
      the members of the different clubs will soon begin to display the real character of this
      infernal place—those who will ultimately be found to forsake their respectable club-houses,
      and merge into impoverished and undone frequenters to this 'hell.'"  
  
  
  
  